Extracted Text:
DICICI PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE 1 1 00 80 0 5908 Environmental, Social and Governance ESG REPORT FY2022



Contents × × ZERO WASTE ZERO WASTE 4 C 0 X X



About the ESG Report Sustainaibility is intrinsic to our vision of building an enduring institution that serves the protection and long-term saving needs of customers with sensitivity - - + * Life insurance is a key imperative for our citizens in the context of the current social security framework in India. We are indeed fortunate that life insurance is a unique financial planning tool that helps us provide families a financial safety-net and enables them to achieve their long-term financial goals. We are committed to integrating sustainability with our business processes and as a way of doing business. In this context, we adopted the ESG framework in 2020 and our ESG initiatives are monitored at the highest level by the Sustainability Steering Committee comprising members of the Management Committee. We have focused initiatives in place for each dimension of the ESG framework under the Environment (leaving the planet a better ESG place for our next generation), Social (giving back to society) and Governance (transparency in functioning) pillars. Each focus area is anchored by a senior leader who oversees the implementation and reporting of initiatives and they are supported by a dedicated ESG resource. Their collective efforts have led to steady improvement on all parameters of the ESG framework. We are very happy to inform you that our MSCI ESG rating has improved from B to A and our Sustainalytics ESG rating has improved from 'Medium risk' to 'Low risk'. We understand that we are the highest ranked ESG Company by both MSCI and Sustainalytics in the Indian life insurance industry. We also regularly interact with investors and analysts to understand their expectations and endeavour to incorporate their feedback into our ESG framework. This report incorporates the disclosures around our focus areas and various new initiatives aimed at responsible investing and environment. We believe that embracing ESG is of vital significance for long-term value creation for all stakeholders as it enables us to go beyond profits to encompass people, purpose and the planet. We remain committed to create a culture that integrates 'best in class' sustainability practices with our business processes. N. S. Kannan Managing Director & CEO ESG REPORT FY2022 | 01



Performance Snapshot SUSTAINALYTICS a Morningstar company RATED MSCI ESG RATINGS A CCC B BB BBB A AA AAA In October 2021, ICICI Prudential Life Insurance received an ESG Risk Rating of 16.9 and was assessed by Sustainalytics to be at Low risk of experiencing material financial impact arising from ESG factors# CUSTOMERS 58.1 mn lives covered (in-force) 84.6% One of the best persistency ratios (13th month) in the industry1 EMPLOYEES 86% of senior management team served > 10 years 1.2 mn+ digital learning hours SOCIETY 45.6 mn lives covered through micro-insurance till date 1,558 underprivileged youth trained in FY2022 through ICICI Academy for Skills In February 2022, ICICI Prudential Life Insurance received a rating of A (on a scale of AAA-CCC) in the MSCI ESG Ratings assessment* >91% usage - Service requests executed through self- help modules 1.46 days Average claim settlement time2 ~260,000 death claims3 settled 11,000+ employees certified based on their proficiency levels ~40% women employed in process and support roles 90% + score on Voice of Employee survey4 >155,000 children and adults supported through the COVID-19 vaccination programme 96% of new business applications logged digitally ~1,700 tonnes of carbon footprint saved # Copyright @2022 Sustainalytics. All rights reserved. This [publication/article/section] contains information developed by Sustainalytics (www.sustainalytics.com). Such information and data are proprietary of Sustainalytics and/or its third party suppliers (Third Party Data) and are provided for informational purposes only. They do not constitute an endorsement of any product or project, nor an investment advice and are not warranted to be complete, timely, accurate or suitable for a particular purpose. Their use is subject to conditions available at https://www.sustainalytics.com/legal-disclaimers * The use by ICICI Prudential Life Insurance of any MSCI ESG Research LLC or its affiliates ('msci') data, and the use of msci logos, trademarks, service marks or index names herein, do not constitute a sponsorship, endorsement, recommendation, or promotion of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance by MSCI. MSCI services and data are the property of msci or its information providers, and are provided 'as-is' and without warranty. MSCI names and logos are trademarks or service marks of MSCI. Figures mentioned are for the financial year ended March 31, 2022. 1 Regular and Limited pay persistency in accordance with IRDAI circular on 'Public Disclosures by Insurers' dated September 30, 2021 2 Average turnaround time for non-investigated claims from receipt of last requirement 3 Includes retail and group death claims 4 Top two box score on advocacy, alignment to strategy, safety & well-being and technology & infrastructure 02 | ICICI PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED



ESG Risks and Opportunities Human Capital An important goal of our people strategy is to facilitate alignment of employees with the strategic business goals to enable seamless strategy delivery. Continuous investment in the growth and development of our people has given us the edge that makes our human resources a key source of our strength and a key competitive advantage. Access to Finance Our business is social in nature, and beyond business, we are committed to driving inclusive growth and social advancement of all citizens. Environment As a life insurance business, the direct impact of our business activities on the environment is minimal. We are committed to efficient use of energy, water and paper in our operations as we strive to reduce our carbon footprint. Responsible Investing As a significant investor in the capital markets, our goal is to ensure that businesses we invest in run their operations in a responsible manner. Accordingly, we have integrated ESG factors as a part of our investment framework. Sustainability Risks We are exposed to sustainability risks associated with various factors such as climate change, demographic shifts, public health trends and evolving lifestyles. We are committed to upholding robust risk management practices to ensure that our risk exposures remains within our risk appetite. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Through our CSR initiatives we demonstrate our commitment to serve the underprivileged sections of society and contribute towards the goal of improving the well-being of citizens. Data Privacy & Security The nature of our business entails collection and handling of sensitive personal data of our customers. Naturally, customer data privacy is given paramount importance especially in the context of evolving digital business models and associated risks around information and cyber security. Safe and secure maintenance of digital records of customers and all stakeholders is accorded the highest priority. Governance Strengthening our corporate governance standards in line with global best practices is key to minimising the Company's exposure to legal, regulatory and reputation risks. We are committed to functioning in a transparent manner and upholding the highest standards of governance and risk management. ESG REPORT FY2022 | 03



ICICI Prudential Life Insurance and the UN SDGs ICICI Prudential Life Insurance has always endeavored to partner in the development of insurance sector in India. Given the low extent of life insurance penetration in our nation, we are committed to extend maximum coverage of protection to our citizens and their families. We started our operations in fiscal year 2001 by offering long-term savings and protection products to meet the different life stage requirements of our customers. This has helped us provide families a financial safety- net and enable them to achieve their long- term financial goals. Over the years, we have been working to meet the Indian economy's need for meaningful socio-economic development which would enable a larger number of people to participate in and benefit from the nation's economic progress. We have been doing so by enabling education, health, skill development and sustainable livelihood, financial inclusion and other activities. UN SDGs RELEVANT TO OUR ACTIVITIES 1 POVERTY Goal 1: No Poverty Our Key Initiatives: The Company supports ICICI Foundation's programme on skill development through sustainable livelihood. ICICI Academy for Skills (Academy) provides vocational training to youth from economically weaker sections so they can undertake economic activity for a sustainable livelihood. The Academy offers industry relevant and job oriented vocational training in 14 technical and office skills from 28 operational centres across the country. The Company has supported 1,558 trainees in the FY2022. * Our activities currently do not align with goal 2, 14 and 17. Through business and corporate social responsibility activities, the Company has made efforts to create lasting value for a sustainable tomorrow. The Company has a robust corporate governance mechanism that is based on an effective independent Board, strong monitoring and risk management, and policies, processes and controls that support and promote accountability, transparency and ethical behaviour. Other areas of the Company's efforts are focused on promoting Inclusive Growth, Managing Environmental Footprint, Socially and Environmentally Responsible Investments and Commitment towards a Sustainable Future. Through these efforts, the Company has been able to contribute to the national commitment towards the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). In 2015, the United Nations adopted the SDGs with an aim to end poverty, protect the planet, and ensure that by 2030 all people enjoy peace and prosperity. The efforts made by the Company has enabled positive contribution to at least 14 out of a total 17 SDGs *. 3 GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING Goal 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages Our Key Initiatives: As a life insurer, we provide comprehensive insurance plans. We have affordable protection plans (ICICI Pru iProtect Smart, ICICI Pru iProtect Return of Premium, ICICI Pru Heart and Cancer Protect and ICICI Pru Precious Life) which provide a 360-degree financial safety net to customers and their families. In addition to providing life cover, our ICICI Pru iProtect Smart product also covers the policy-holder on 34 critical illnesses. This ensures that the family's savings are insulated, in case the customer is diagnosed with any of these critical illnesses. ICICI Pru Heart and Cancer Protect product provides coverage against minor and major 04 | ICICI PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED



conditions related to heart and cancer at affordable premiums. The ICICI Pru iProtect Return of Premium product also has an option of 'Critical Illness Cover' which provides a lumpsum amount on being diagnosed with any of the 64 critical illnesses covered under the product. ICICI Pru Precious Life is a unique term plan specifically designed to provide a life cover for individuals with existing health concerns. The underlying health-related concerns include lifestyle-related ailments such as diabetes and high blood pressure amongst other conditions. The Company with ICICI Foundation has conducted vaccination programmes for children (aged 12 to 18 years) and adults in the rural districts of Maharashtra (Ahmednagar, Aurangabad, Dhule, Nanded, Nandurbar, Nashik and Palghar). Over 155,000 people were covered under the vaccination programme. Of the beneficiaries covered, 38% were children, 56% were adults and 6% were senior citizens. The Company continued its commitment towards awareness of proactive health management, financial preparedness and the significance of having an electronic Insurance Account (eIA). Through its communication "Body ke Missed Calls", the Company educated customers to pay attention to the early signs of critical health issues, go for regular health check-up and be financially prepared. The message was disseminated through radio, the Company's social media handles and through an advertorial. The programme reached out to 61.4 million consumers. The Cancer Care programme with Tata Memorial Hospital (TMH), Mumbai to support medical treatment of under-privileged children and youth diagnosed with Cancer concluded in FY2022. Through this programme, whilst the plan was to support 120 children/ youth, 166 children/youth have been supported with treatment and medication. 4 QUALITY EDUCATION Goal 4: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all Our Key Initiatives: The Company has partnered with Catalysts for Social Action for programme 'Asha' which was aimed at supporting underprivileged/orphan/abandoned children living in child care homes to secure education, skilling, vocational training, food & nutrition, health & hygiene. The programme has concluded in FY2022. During the programme tenure, 129 underprivileged children living in three child care homes in Madhya Pradesh have been supported annually. Besides holistic development of children, the 'After Care' initiative is a key component of the programme for children aged 18 and above, which aims to integrate them with society through higher education, skilling and life skills. 48 children are beneficiaries of 'After Care' intervention and are pursuing higher education/vocational training/jobs of their choice. To strengthen employment opportunities and livelihoods, the ICICI Foundation has provided training in technical and non- technical skill courses to approximately 5.2 lakh underprivileged individuals in urban and rural India. The Company contributes 70% of its annual CSR budget to ICICI Foundation. GENDER EQUALITY 5 Goal 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls Our Key Initiatives: Through the Academy, the ICICI Foundation is empowering the youth by providing pro bono skill development and placement assistance. Women constitute 43% of the learners at the Academy. The Company is an equal opportunity employer with zero tolerance for any discrimination based on gender, religion, caste or class. This is implemented through our Talent Acquisition Policy. The Company have taken various steps over the year to foster inclusivity at the workplace. The Diversity & Inclusion agenda was strengthened through the implementation of the Equal Opportunity, Diversity and Inclusion policy. The Company is committed to promoting inclusion at the workplace through an enabling policy framework and initiatives that support gender diversity and sensitivity towards the differently abled and for people with diverse sexual orientations. Over the year, the representation of women in the workforce has improved to 27% in FY2022 from 26% in FY2020 & FY2021 with women constituting 40% in process and support roles. 6 CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION Goal 6: Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all Our Key Initiatives: Being a financial services company, water usage is limited to office use purposes. We take appropriate precautions to conserve water. Conventional water-based urinals have been converted to waterless urinals, water taps have been fitted with sensors and aerators and sewage treatment plant has been installed at out Head Office. To promote cleanliness and prevention of transmissible diseases, the Company protects and safeguard vulnerable children by donating essentials such as hand sanitisers, masks and hygiene kits. ESG REPORT FY2022 | 05



7 AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY Goal 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all Our Key Initiatives: We have implemented green energy in our major offices in Mumbai to reduce carbon footprint. Currently six of our offices in Mumbai are sourcing their energy requirements through electricity service providers providing green (renewable) energy. We intend to progressively switch to green energy across all offices as and when the electricity service providers scale up their sourcing and distribution of green energy and are able to provide the same. Additionally, with regards to the target of improving the energy efficiency, the Company has implemented the following initiatives: · Deployment of Inverter Air Conditioners (ACs) and Variable Refrigerant Flow (VRF) ACs vis-à-vis conventional ACs to reduce electricity consumption · Deployment of Light-emitting diode (LED) lighting vs conventional tubelights for energy efficiency · Deployment of LED signages instead of conventional signages for energy efficiency · Using sensor-based lighting in the office space for efficient use of electricity · Periodic maintenance for major equipment, including ACs for energy efficiency 8 ECONOMIC GROWTH DECENT WORK AND Goal 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all Our Key Initiatives: The Company supports ICICI Foundation's project on skill development through sustainable livelihood. The Academy provides vocational training to youth from economically weaker sections so that they can undertake economic activity for a sustainable livelihood. The Academy offers industry relevant and job oriented vocational training in 14 technical and office skills across 28 operational centres across the country. The Company has supported 1,558 trainees in the FY2022. 9 INDUSTRY, INNOVATION Goal 9: Build resilient infrastructure, AND INFRASTRUCTURE promote inclusive and sustainable industrialisation and foster innovation Our Key Initiatives: The Indian insurance industry plays a key role in channelising household savings to provide long-term capital needed for infrastructure and housing, as also investing significantly in Government bonds. At March 31, 2022, we have invested ~45% of our AUM in the industries related to infrastructure/housing and Government bonds (₹ 332.0 billion and ₹ 758.0 billion respectively). We have specially designed micro-insurance products targeting socially and economically weaker sections, thereby increasing access to financial services to the underserved and underbanked segments of the country's population. 10 Goal 10: Reduce inequality within and REDUCED INEQUALITIES among countries Our Key Initiatives: The Company supports ICICI Foundation's project on skill development through sustainable livelihood. The Academy provides vocational training to youth from economically weaker sections so that they can undertake economic activity for a sustainable livelihood. The Academy offers industry relevant and job oriented vocational training in 14 technical and office skills across 28 operational centres across the country. The Company has supported 1,558 trainees in the FY2022. We partner with ICICI Bank and others in promoting Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Beema Yojana (PMJJBY) a social security initiative. At March 2022, about 524,024 lives are covered under the PMJJBY scheme. We have specially designed micro-insurance products, targeting socially and economically weaker sections. Our Group micro-insurance range of products such as 'Shubh Raksha' offers protection to the member's family in case of death of the member by paying out a corpus or clearing the financial liabilities. In FY2022, we covered 27.4 million lives, bringing the total coverage under such products to 45.6 million lives at March 2022. These plans offer a sum assured as low as ₹ 1,000 to ₹ 200,000. Our retail micro-insurance term product 'Sarv Jana Suraksha' has premium starting as low as ₹ 50 per annum. Our retail micro-insurance savings product 'Anmol Bachat' enables one to save with as little as ₹ 200 per annum. While designing products, we have incorporated features to specifically address the unique needs of women. For example, our retail protection plans not only offer lower premium rates for women, but also cover women specific illnesses such as breast and cervical cancer. Within the savings segment, our product "Lakshya", offers a higher guaranteed benefit exclusively for women. 06 | ICICI PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED



11 SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES Goal 11: Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable Our Key Initiatives: The Company partnered with World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF)-India in FY2018 to support skilling and sustainable livelihood of the local communities living in the Himalayan regions with the objective of creating diversified livelihood opportunities and addressing the challenge of sustainable rangeland management practices. Through the programme, eco- tourism and handicraft production have been undertaken. Around 40 homestays and 6 ecocafes have been set up to host tourists; and over 500 women from local communities have been trained on handicraft production. Further, a handicraft production facility has been set up at Tsokar. The programme also aimed to address the challenge of sustainable rangeland management practices due to over exploitation of rangelands. A comprehensive rangeland preservation plan has been developed for livelihood security and a functional pasture management in Pir Panjal and Ladakh regions of Himalayas. The programme concluded in FY2022. The Indian insurance industry plays a key role in channelising household savings to provide long-term capital needed for infrastructure and housing, as also investing significantly in Government bonds. At March 31, 2022, we have invested ~45% of our AUM in the industries related to infrastructure/housing and Government bonds (₹ 332.0 billion and ₹ 758.0 billion respectively). RESPONSIBLE 12 CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION Goal 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns Our Key Initiatives: Our focus is on minimising the adverse environmental impact of energy consumption by promoting responsible consumption through energy saving devices, limiting energy use through temperature control and regulated hours. Whilst we have always invested in the latest energy efficient equipment, we have taken several measures and actively invested in initiatives for energy conservation such as inverter ACs and Variable Refrigerant Flow (VRF) ACs in place of conventional ACs, Light-emitting diode (LED) lighting in place of conventional tube- lights etc. Being a financial service entity, water usage is limited to office use purposes, however, we have undertaken appropriate precautions to conserve water through measures such as water-less urinals, aerator taps etc. C Reduction of paper consumption has been a key strategic thrust for us. Another big focus area for us has been replacement of disposable paper cups as they had high usage and wastage and were difficult to recycle. We have been encouraging employees to use reusable mugs and glasses. The organisation has stopped usage of single use plastic water bottles across most offices and replaced them with reusable water jar and glasses. Plastic garbage bags have been replaced with bio-degradable bags and plastic dustbins with steel dustbins. E-waste such as computers, printers, switches, scanners have been the main e-waste generated. 18,162 kgs of e-waste generated was disposed through authorised recyclers since FY2019 and 9,763 kgs in FY2022. Re-cycling certificates have been received from selected government authorised e-waste vendors. 13 ACTION CUMATE Goal 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts Our Key Initiatives: We have implemented green energy in our major offices in Mumbai to reduce carbon footprint. Overall, approximately 1,770 tonnes of carbon footprint has been saved during FY2022 through initiatives directed at energy consumption, water conservation and waste management, resulting in cumulative saving of 6,748 tons in FY2020, FY2021 and FY2022. 15 ON LAND Goal 15: Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss Our Key Initiatives: The Company partnered with WWF- India in FY2019 to prevent retaliatory killing of predators by supporting the villagers financially for their loss of cattle. The financial support extended aimed to soften the blow of losing a critical means of livelihood. The three-year programme was implemented across WWF-India's priority tiger landscapes in India, namely, Brahmaputra landscape (Assam), Western Ghats Nilgiris landscape (Tamil Nadu, Kerala, and Karnataka) and Terai Arc landscape (Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar). The programme concluded in FY2022. Over 3,800 villagers have been supported through the programme. ESG REPORT FY2022 | 07



The Company partnered with World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF)- India in FY2018 to support skilling and sustainable livelihood of the local communities living in the Himalayan regions with the objective of creating diversified livelihood opportunities and addressing the challenge of sustainable rangeland management practices. Through the programme, eco-tourism and handicraft production have been undertaken. Around 40 homestays and 6 ecocafes have been set up to host tourists; and over 500 women from local communities have been trained on handicraft production. Further, a handicraft production facility has been set up at Tsokar. The programme also aimed to address the challenge of sustainable rangeland management practices due to over exploitation of rangelands. A comprehensive rangeland preservation plan has been developed for livelihood security and a functional pasture management in Pir Panjal and Ladakh regions of Himalayas. The programme concluded in FY2022. 000 16 PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS Goal 16: Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels Our Key Initiatives: A sound corporate governance mechanism is critical to retain and enhance stakeholders' trust. The Company's corporate governance philosophy is based on an effective independent Board, the separation of the Board's supervisory role from the executive management and constitution/functioning of Board committees. The Company has in place an annually reviewed Board approved policy on anti-money laundering and countering financing of terrorism (AML), through which it has put in place procedures to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. The Compliance, Risk, and Internal Audit teams undertake a range of monitoring activities during the year to provide assurance that business units are complying with applicable laws, regulations, and company policies. We have in place a policy on Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption (ABC) and Operational Guidelines for Acceptance of Gifts, Entertainment and Sponsored Travel. 4 0DO 1000 1000 00 08 | ICICI PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED



Human Capital: Creating the People Edge HUMAN CAPITAL Serving the needs of customers with sensitivity is at the core of the Company's Vision statement. This holds true for our employees as well. We strive to deliver our core employee value proposition of a long term career underpinned on the cornerstones of providing a Supportive Environment, Learning & Growth and Fairness & Meritocracy at the workplace. To deliver a seamless and superior employee experience, we have digitalised the employee life cycle from onboarding to exit by deploying the latest technology enablers. We believe that alignment to the Company's Vision & Values, strategic imperatives, goals and culture is essential to seamless execution of business strategy. Our Human Resource policies, processes and systems are configured to drive alignment across all levels of the organisation. People are key to strategy execution and we continuously invest in the growth and development of our people to create a culture that allows people to feel empowered to contribute, flourish and give their very best. It is this investment in the growth of our people and the alignment of the people strategy with the business strategy, that we believe creates the edge that makes our human resources a source of our strength and a key competitive advantage. The pandemic has accelerated digital adoption at an unprecedented scale leading to the transformation of the way work is done which in turn led to transformation of the workplace and the workforce. The onset of the pandemic led to the re-orientation of the human resources imperatives to deal with the complexities of the evolving environment as follows: People are key to strategy execution and successful execution of strategy is contingent on the alignment of the people strategy to strategic business imperatives. #1: Enabling employee well-being #2: Enabling organisation productivity #3: Building an engaged and agile workforce The three imperatives were identified as a response to the challenges of the evolving business environment and in alignment with the employee promise or Cornerstones of providing a Supportive Environment, Learning & Growth and ensuring Fairness & Meritocracy at the workplace. #1: Enabling employee well-being The Company has put in place a holistic well-being framework for employees which focused on both physical and mental well- being. A three pronged approach comprising awareness building, instituting enabling policies and facilitating habit formation formed the bedrock on which the well-being framework was conceptualised. Healthy, safe and secure workplace ESG REPORT FY2022 | 09



#Prote tectIndia MEDICAL HELP IS JUST A PHONE CALL AWAY! #ProtectMeProtectIndia EVERYONE HAS TO START SOMEWHERE #ProtectMeProtectIndia b 24X7 DEDICATED COVID-19 HELPLINE: 88284 38513 iSHIELD A. COVID-19 related initiatives: Doctor Consultation RTPCR Test Combating COVID-19 was the foremost priority of the Company with the country witnessing two waves of COVID-19 and large numbers of people including employees getting infected and hospitalised. All efforts were made to get all employees vaccinated. Onsite and offsite vaccination camps were conducted in partnership with best-in-class medical service providers. The camps were not only conducted for employees, but also extended to family members of employees as well as out-sourced staff and partner employees. In addition to the vaccination camps, the Company instituted a policy to reimburse the cost of vaccination to promote safety at the workplace. A variety of educational and awareness campaigns were conducted including webinars with the Chief Medical Officer at regular intervals. 99% employees of the Company are fully vaccinated as on March 31, 2022. Hospital Bed Oxygen Support Isolation Centre Ambulance In Case of Covid-19 Symptoms, Call and Get Immediate Medical Help DICICI PRUDENTIAL" WE STAND BY YOU! A 24X7 COVID-19 helpdesk was setup in partnership with a service provider to provide services for doctor tele-consultation, RT-PCR testing, home care and isolation centers, ambulance services, hospital admission assistance and oxygen support for employees & their extended families. Over 980 employees and family members availed of this benefit. The office infrastructure had already been augmented by installing Ultraviolet Air (UA) purifiers and High Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) filters in air conditioners. Social distancing measures were implemented by restricting entry to offices through employee rostering as per Government guidelines. Plexiglass shields were installed at all customer service desks and workstations in the larger offices where large number of employees are housed in one place. Provisions were made for face shields, masks and sanitisers to inculcate safe habits amongst employees and the support staff. The Company instituted protocols for office working and a playbook was circulated to all employees on COVID-19 appropriate behaviours. As on March 31, 2022, all offices are operating at 100% capacity. COVID-19 testing and reimbursement Home Care facility as part of Mediclaim policy Teleconsultation with empaneled doctors Paid Leave during COVID-19 recovery Information on COVID-19 related facilities through iSupport Facilitation of COVID-19 vaccination through private hospitals Counseling for mental wellbeing through the Care Connect initiative, in partnership with Santulan #StaySafeStayHealthy! @ICICI PRUDENTIAL Strictly for internal circulation only. Should not be further circulatediused for pre untation to a prospectiginais! publie: 10 | ICICI PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED



An app - iWorkSafe was developed to enable employees to submit their daily health status and to enable social distancing via a Bluetooth-based buzzer. The app was downloaded by all employees and enabled the Company to get real-time data on health and vaccination status of all employees. With the Company's health insurance partner, Home Care packages were offered to employees to support their medical needs. To ensure affected employees were given sufficient time to recover, 'COVID-19 recovery' leave was provided in addition to sick leave. Through the iSupport initiative, the Company created a verified database offering city-specific information pertaining to COVID-19 facilities such as hospitals, pharmacies and quarantine centers. B. Other initiatives: 1. Building awareness Wellness talks were conducted by the Company's Chief Medical Officer at regular intervals. Holistic well-being was promoted through multiple awareness campaigns. With 70% of the workforce in frontline sales roles and regularly meeting customers, road safety is an important priority and sessions were conducted in association with local traffic police representatives. Fire safety week was observed and employees underwent training drills and fire safety sessions along with educative mailer campaigns. 2. Enabling policies: The Company has stringent guidelines to ensure safety of employees and Company property. These include policies on fire safety that cover rules pertaining to fire-fighting equipment, emergency exits, floor marshals for each office, fire drills and other safety parameters for office maintenance and a process for regular certification on all parameters for each office. Adherence to the Health, Safety & Environment guidelines is regularly reviewed internally. The Company has enhanced the benefits that offer employees protection of health and well-being such as Group Term Insurance and Personal Accident Insurance. WHEN A FIRE BREAKS OUT, THERE IS NO TIME TO THINK. It is proven fact that in emergencies, most people panic and freeze. It is also a proven fact if we have a plan, one that we have rehearsed often, people will usualy behave rationally and swiftly. PARTICIPATE IN YOUR BRANCH FIRE DRILL A well thought out, well rehearsed evacuation plan CAN SAVE LIVES! The Company encourages employees to avail of Voluntary Health Cover which enables them to take on additional health insurance coverage for their parents and parents-in-law. All employees & their immediate families are eligible for hospitalisation coverage and annual health check-up based on age and tenure criteria. To enable mental health, the Employee Assistance programme has been put in place with a tie-up with a partner for mental health counselling and 166 employees availed the facility in FY2022. 3. Facilitating habit formations: Various initiatives were launched to promote physical and mental well-being and nudge employees to develop right behaviours and habits. Some of the well-being initiatives included a) Walkathon: An initiative for employees to encourage walking an average of 10,000 steps daily was launched for the period January to March 2022 in partnership with a service provider. The Walkathon was divided into seven laps and ~350 employees participated in each lap. b) Pinkathon: The initiative was launched on the occasion of International Women's Day in March 2022 to encourage women employees. The programme was launched in two laps and ~40 employees participated in each lap. c) Yoga sessions: ~ 350 employees participated in the yoga sessions organised by the Company. The Company also actively encouraged employees to take restorative breaks through an initiative called 'Silent Hour' where employees were allowed to be unavailable for calls or meetings during the work day to focus on important tasks or for their personal needs. Health and Well-being at the Workplace Silent hasur Creative outlet #mindfulworking Respect pemonat time Health In wealth Take vocations Mini work birrahis Tha balance of Wurk, Life and Health helps achlove greater efficiency ESG REPORT FY2022 | 11



#2: Enabling organisation productivity A. Talent attraction and onboarding Growing and building talent from within and offering a long-term career constitute the essence of our employment proposition. The Company actively focus on building a strong bench of internal successors at all levels and this gives us a rich source of tacit knowledge, experience and alignment culture and values of the organisation. Our talent pool is strengthened every year with intake of fresh graduates from professional institutes and business schools. Additionally, wherever required, capability gaps are bridged by hiring specialist talent laterally. The diversified talent mix of fresh graduates, lateral hires with skills in key functional areas and internally grown talent who have acquired valuable experience of people, processes, systems across multiple areas have helped the Company build a multi-skilled, multi-generational workforce uniquely positioned for successful execution of the business strategy. Documentation & offer on the go ... -------- Offer Letter Congratulations Apatra K The Company enabled digital, seamless onboarding of all new recruits including pre and post-joining documentation, offer letter generation and identity card creation. STAR, the Company's flagship induction programme for frontline sales professionals, was deployed digitally to ensure employees are adequately skilled to perform in a hybrid working environment. For entry-level management and specialist roles, the Company hires MBAs from top-tier business schools, Chartered Accountants (CAs) and other professionally qualified talent. In FY2022, the Company hired over 1,500 employees from graduate campuses and over 3,700 as freshers. New recruits from top-tier business schools underwent Hire for attitude and train for skills the virtual Business Leadership Programme which is an intensive orientation programme that aims to transition graduate MBAs and other professionals to transition from campus to corporate life. This year, the Company significantly enhanced capacity building by hiring people with specialist skills. To build a pipeline of young talent, the Company onboarded entry-level Pharmacy graduates in the Underwriting function, Actuarial professionals, and CAs in the Finance & Internal Audit functions towards meeting business requirements and to mitigate the challenges of high attrition. HAPPINESS IS having your friends as work mates - Refer your friends for opportunities at ICICI Prudential Life across channels and locations by clicking on https://ismarthire.iciciprulife.com/Referral/ you can also share positions on your social media through this link. For any query reach out to your regional HR team. Refer to Employee Referral Policy on PULSE for terms and conditions. The Company uses a diversified sourcing strategy for lateral hiring including partnerships with intermediaries such as recruitment process outsourcing firms and recruitment consultants. The Company actively encourages employees to advocate the employer brand and refer those in their network under the "Talent@Hunt" programme, Company's employee referral programme. In FY2022, referrals constituted 22% of the total sourcing mix. The Company also strengthened social hiring by reaching out to prospective candidates on social media platforms in a segmented manner and encouraged direct applications to the Company's careers page. B. Talent development Learning & Growth is a key employee value proposition and the Company aims to facilitate capability building of employees through classroom & on-the-job training, job rotation opportunities, job enrichment and opportunities for career progression. The Company follows an integrated capability development framework for developing a culture of Excellence. The capability development framework focuses on enhancing the performance and potential of employees based on the Company's Leadership Anchors of Execution Excellence, Professional Excellence, People Excellence, Service Excellence and Strategic Excellence. 12 | ICICI PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED



Service Excellence Strategic Excellence People Excellence Leadership Anchors Execution Excellence Professional Excellence The Company's integrated multi-platform capability development architecture offers learnings through inductions, domain specific trainings, behavioral interventions and self-paced platforms. The various initiatives over the year have resulted in over 1.2 million learning hours and 100% employees covered through at least one training intervention. Learning hours: over 1.2 million 100% employees undergone at least one training intervention 11,000+ employees certified The specific programmes include: 1. Inductions The Company has a well-established induction programme that enables new recruits (fresher and experienced) understand the basics of the life insurance sector, get to know the organisation and secure understanding of their roles and responsibilities. STAR and 'Business Leadership Programme (BLP)' are induction programmes specially designed for new employees in frontline sales and tiered campus hires in Sales management, Support, Process roles respectively. In FY2022, 6,095 employees were boarded via the STAR programme and 229 tiered campus freshers via the BLP. 2. Behavioural These include various managerial effectiveness and leadership programmes to increase managerial and leadership effectiveness at various levels in the Company. These programmes focus on understanding self, understanding others and understanding the various aspects of business and are based on the Company's Leadership Anchors. Overall ~ 2400 employees in the Sales management, Corporate and Process roles have attended these programmes. 3. Domain-specific programmes a. Segmented & targeted initiatives for frontline sales are conducted through Saksham - flagship programme for knowledge building, up skilling and perspective sharing for all domain inputs for the Sales team. The programme anchors national webinars by subject matter experts and panel discussions on the seven pillars of Product, Process, Market update, Productivity, Selling skills, Digital and Service. These are complemented with e-learning modules and certifications on the in-house learning management system- Saksham app and the Al-based platform 'My Coach'. The Company has instituted an integrated certification architecture aimed at testing proficiency of frontline sales employees to discharge their role as per standards as detailed in Annexure I. In FY2022, over 11,000 frontline sales employees have been certified across levels. b. Based on the learning needs of Corporate and Process functions, workshops on themes such as data literacy, project management, business writing & business continuity management have been conducted. 4. Self-paced programmes In addition to the Saksham app which offers library of domain specific trainings for the Sales team, the Company has also tied up with LinkedIn Learning and Coursera to offer best-in-class learning content and certificates from renowned institutions such January LIBRARY BAF Let's Win it -- SAKSHAM SAASHAN ESG REPORT FY2022 | 13



Skill development Capability gaps Step 1. Mapping of skill families Step 2. Defining discrete skills for each skill family Step 3. Mapping desired skill proficiency for each role Step 4. Mapping employee proficiency on each skill as University of Michigan, Yale University and Google etc. ~ 2,000 courses on themes such as data analytics, cyber security, cloud, process excellence, project management, design thinking etc. have been completed on these learning platforms. Opportunity to build functional capability is also enabled through the Education Assistance Policy where employees may wish to opt for a self- directed learning programmes. The courses covered in the policy are mentioned in Annexure I. As a part of overall skill building exercise, the Company has put in place a framework to identify skill gaps in each function and augment capability through skill training, job rotation, lateral hiring and industry academia partnerships. This involves mapping of skill families & the discrete skills for each functional area, mapping of desired skill proficiency for each role and the proficiency of each employee on each skill, and thereafter taking necessary actions for building capability. While capacity building in these functions would be undertaken through a combination of lateral hiring, campus hiring and industry-academia partnerships, capability building would be undertaken through up skilling/reskilling, job rotation and professional certifications. The Company has a defined Internal Job Rotation policy that provides opportunities to employees to move across functions and locations so that they can broaden their skills and knowledge through diverse experiences and have a more holistic understanding of the business. Over 55% of the total employees have undergone at least one role change in the last five years. Challenging roles and diverse experiences The Company has been able to develop high quality human capital having leadership stability, with 86% of the senior management team having served the Company for more than 10 years, leadership breadth with 75% of the positions in senior management filled through internal succession in the last 5 years balanced with hiring of specialist talent laterally, and leadership depth with 96% of senior management in generalist roles having done more than 3 job rotations. C. Performance & talent management The Company has an established performance and talent management framework. The objectives of the framework are threefold a) to ensure alignment to the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) of the Company as set out by the Board and ensure clarity of purpose across levels, b) to create a talent pipeline by nurturing high potential talent and c) to enable differentiated rewards and capability development to help ring fence talent for the future. Alignment to strategy Creating a talent pipeline Differentiated rewards 14 | ICICI PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED



The Company has a structured Performance Management System (PMS) anchored on the principles of Fairness and Meritocracy. It enables clarity of goals and alignment between KPIs of the Company as set out by the Board and individual KPIs. Alignment to the Company's strategy and KPls is cascaded by the Management Committee comprising the Managing Director & CEO and the team reporting to him. This is further cascaded by the Executive Committee comprising the top 20 senior leaders of the Company. The Executive Committee reviews the Company's Balanced Scorecard (BSC) every month - a framework that enables strategy and KPI implementation by: · Identifying and improving internal business functions and resulting external outcomes · Establishing linkage of Company Vision to strategic objectives, measures, targets and initiatives · Measuring and providing feedback to the organisation These measures are further reviewed by cross-functional councils led by senior leaders, as outlined in Annexure II. The Company has a well-defined succession planning process to facilitate the development and career planning of high potential talent, mitigate vacancy risk arising from attrition and ensure business continuity. A framework is in place for identifying key roles and measuring the depth of leadership cover for each role by identifying successors who can move to the role either immediately or over a period of time, or by restructuring the role to mitigate vacancy risk and ensure business continuity, where successors are not immediately available to fill the vacancy. Based on the number of successors identified, their readiness to move to the next level role and the feasibility of conducting restructuring in the event of the role holder's exit, a score called the Leadership Cover Index (LCI) is derived for each key role. An annual exercise is carried out to identify the LCI for each key role along with the talent development actions. The Company enables a meritocratic culture through relative assessment of performance and reinforcing performance accountability and linkage to rule-based rewards. Employees in roles frontline sales and sales management roles have the opportunity to track their performance real-time against their individual KPIs through performance dashboards. These dashboards are available on the PMS microsite of the Company intranet. Reward performance & career progression on merit With an objective to review business quality, integrated dashboards and forums for right-selling practices have been constituted for the sales teams. This helps segment employees in top, middle and bottom cohorts within their roles - frontline sales, first line managers, managers of managers and development actions are taken based on their performance cohort. In FY2022, several employee productivity improvement initiatives have been stepped up through investments in digital learning and certification, re-calibration of manpower based on business needs, job enrichment and job rotation. These have resulted in best-in-class employee productivity and cost ratios in the industry. The Company's long-term pay schemes are designed to encourage institution building among employees. Long-term pay may be administered either through the Company's employee stock option scheme or the long term reward scheme of the Company. Typically, this is a critical element in rewarding the middle and senior management of the Company. As a philosophy, long-term pay is given to: · Enhance employee motivation · Enable employees to participate in the long-term growth and financial success of the Company · Act as a retention mechanism, by enabling employee participation in the business as an active stakeholder to usher in an 'owner-manager' culture Employees at the senior management and the leadership team are granted stock options in line with the Company's Employee Stock Options Scheme. ESG REPORT FY2022 | 15



#3 Building an engaged and agile workforce: A. Enabling a diverse workforce The Company has a multi-generational workforce that blends the richness of experience with the energy of youth. Accordingly, the varying need and priorities of each employee cohort are catered to with differentiated propositions. These are enabled through various policies on: · Flexibility: Through flexible modes of employment, flexible compensation plans and flexible leave policies catering to various personal, biological and health needs · Family support: Through policies on health, financial security, support for children, post-retirement benefits and bereavement support to employees' families · Safety, health and wellness: Through initiatives around road and fire safety and policies including health insurance, executive health check-ups and mental health counselling · Learning: Through policies on internal job rotation and education assistance and various initiatives on learning and development. The details on these polices are mentioned in Annexure III. The Company is an equal opportunity employer with zero tolerance for any discrimination based on gender, religion, caste or class. This is implemented through our Talent Acquisition Policy. The Company have taken various steps over the year to foster inclusivity at the workplace. The Diversity & Inclusion agenda was strengthened through the implementation of the Equal Opportunity, Diversity and Inclusion policy. The Company is committed to promoting inclusion at the workplace through an enabling policy framework and initiatives that support gender diversity and sensitivity towards the differently abled and for people with diverse sexual orientations. Over the year, the representation of women in the workforce has improved from 26% in FY2020 and FY2021 to 27% in FY2022. The representation of women in process and support roles is ~ 40% for FY2022. 7 Equal opportunity for all To encourage inclusion and take corrective actions on the areas identified, initiatives are being implemented to: . Create awareness on Diversity & Inclusion (Dal) and sessions on unconscious biase for employees . Build the talent pipeline through a focus on hiring of women especially through the campus programme and in top cities, and encouraging of inclusion through networking and mentoring forums for women · Define enabling policies to encourage women to stay invested in their career. The Company offers supportive policies for women which cater to their varied life stage needs. Some of these policies include Maternity Leave, Adoption Leave of 3 months and medical leave in case of miscarriage or medical termination of pregnancy, any illness arising out of pregnancy and for tubectomy operation, including extension of Work from Home where required, assistive devices for People with Disabilities (PWD) and flexible work contracts . Measure and track Diversity & Inclusion (Dal) metrics including gender equity in performance and pay and Voice of Employee survey score B. Communication and engagement architecture The Company has a 3i engagement framework of Inform, Involve and Invigorate, and aims to provide a seamless employee experience through use of technology. 1. Inform The objective of the Company's digital communication efforts was to keep all employees regularly informed on business developments, organisation imperatives and the strategic direction. Special emphasis was placed on ensuring adherence to health and safety protocols at the workplace. Accordingly, communication updates were regularly sent from the Managing Director & CEO's desk. The Chief Distribution Officer ran a monthly engagement initiative and digital campaigns were run on the employee apps - PULSE & ATOM. 16 | ICICI PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED



SAKSHAM nå Diwali WINNERS BLOCK YOUR - TIME - 9:30 AM | FEB 16 - --- O --- ---- *An important communication 2. Involve Various initiatives such as Coffee and Connect/Town halls were undertaken to build connect amongst employees. Formal forums such as Executive Committee meeting and business forums are held at regular frequency for aligning the leadership team with the Company's goals and as a part of their leadership development to acquire a multi-functional perspective beyond their immediate roles. C ampus onnect Rookie to Rockstar « 3. Invigorate a. Festivals Important national festivals were celebrated through both virtual and physical events wherever possible. While all branches were decorated on special days, employee gatherings were discouraged in line with COVID-19 protocols. Celebrating the Indian teams' Olympic performance the Fit India campaign was run on the occasion of Independence Day. Employees were encouraged to participate in crossfit challenges promoting physical well-being. Promoting India's diverse geography, a 'Bingo' contest was also launched for employees on the occasion on Independence Day. Apart from this other festivals such as Holi, Diwali, and Christmas etc. were celebrated at the branches. b. Go Green Month A month long campaign was launched in October 2021 which encouraged employees to adopt greener ways of living and promote wellness. Initiatives such as 'Plant a Sapling', 'Navraatri Green Day', session on 'Mental Agility & Yoga', e-learning programmes on mental wellness, 'Ecofriendly Home Diwali' and 'Walkathon Challenge' were launched. ~1,000 employees participated in these initiatives. GREEN GRIEN CALLING KUDOS TO ALL OUR CALLING YOGA for a better YOU! Do you have a little Picasso at home? Ger 24. 2521 PLANT A SAPLING DOOWE c. International Women's Day Prompting wellness for women, 'Pinkathon Challenge' was launched for women employees via partnership with Cultfit. Wellness session was also organised with the Chief Medical Officer and ~800 employees participated in the session. WELLNESS TALK FOR A WOMAN OF TODAY KEEP IT UP! TO BE THE CHAMP! PICICREDENTIALT PICICH ISEDINTIET ESG REPORT FY2022 | 17



d. Foundation Day The Company celebrated the 21st foundation day on December 22, 2021, where the Company had an opportunity to have Mr. K.V. Kamath, former Chairman of the Company, as the special guest. The Chairman also addressed the employees on this occasion. The celebrations started with various workshops and activities planned for the 247 awardees and their families. To create a personal touch, a "Recreate the magic" hamper with event memorabilia was sent across to all employees in advance. As build up to the celebrations, workshops on art & craft, 'Craft your Imagination' and gardening, 'Microgreens and Urban Gardening' were conducted for employees' and their families. Out of the 247 awardees - 234 employees were awarded for completing 10 years and 13 employees for completing 20 years. The event saw 11,000 logins for the event during the main event. As per feedback from the employees on experience of the Foundation Day celebrations, 98% enjoyed the overall experience. 21 My Pride Our Glory 10 Years Join us for a learning experience on MICROGREENS & URBAN GARDENING 21 By Phiên FOUNDATION DAY 2021 The Company continues to leverage technology to enhance employee experience, across the areas of talent acquisition, talent development and talent management. In talent acquisition, a seamless candidate onboarding journey is being enabled through chatbot/voicebot, Optical Character Recognition (OCR), and Intelligent Character Recognition (ICR), video interviewing and a seamless journey on the career website. The focus on talent development is to curate on-the-go bite-sized learning by leveraging platforms such as LinkedIn Learning, Coursera and My Coach and through the certification framework for frontline sales. Intelligent automation, AI-based conversational chatbots/ voicebots, and User Interface and User Experience (UI/UX) on the HR app will enable a superior employee experience across the employee lifecycle. Communicate & collaborate Self service · Blogposts · Webcasts · Share videos and pictures · Quizzes & polls Performance updates · Navigator · IContribute · Ineo --- --- -i -- · Leave & attendance · Salary details · team requests · Travel planning & claims . Mediclaim Queries . Chatbot Tara · AskHR · IHelpline · IT requests C. Addressing employee concerns through a robust grievance redressal mechanism The Company has a grievance redressal process to ensure that all employee grievances are suitably investigated and action is taken as per due process stipulated in the Employee Service Rules (ESR) in accordance with the principles of natural justice. The redressal process outlines the method by which employees may register their grievances, the role of the Employee Governance team, the classification of grievances, the process of enquiry, disciplinary action, appeal mechanism and reporting. The detailed process is outlined in Annexure IV. Employees are encouraged to register any grievance they may have against any employee, agent, partner and customer or report any breach of the Code or any of the Company policies. The Company has instituted the "egov" portal on the intranet for employees to record and register their grievances. The egov portal serves as the repository of all relevant information pertaining to each grievance and for the purpose of monitoring and tracking of all grievances for timely resolution. Employees may also write and submit their grievances over email to employeeassist@iciciprulife.com or raise their grievances through their reporting hierarchy or the Human Resource department. D. Employee surveys The pandemic necessitated a transition to remote work for all employees in the interest of health and safety. The new normal that emerged implored the question of the future of the workplace. A remote effectiveness survey was launched in July 2021 to gauge how employees imagined their future of work and identified factors that aided and inhibited successful work along with their experience of working remotely. The survey covered three dimensions namely work modes, work needs and well-being. 18 | ICICI PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED



YOUR VIEW MATTERS! PROMISES MADE, PROMISES KEPT, PROMISES DELIVERED 8 O Through the Voice of Employee survey, our employees have given a score of; Work From Home? Work From Office? Mix of both? What is the right choice? Over the last one year, we have adapted to working from home. As we get vaccinated and lockdowns ease over the next few months, what do you think our new normal should look like? Take this survey to let us know your views on how remote work has influenced your productivity and effectiveness. Your inputs will help shape the future of our workplace. Submit your responses now! DICICI PRUDENTIAL" The survey outcomes were shared with function heads and business leaders. Work groups were commissioned to discuss and propose policy level changes and the Company would be rolling out the Remote work policy to offer flexibility to employees in order to promote a sustainable workforce. In addition with the efforts around employee engagement and experience, the Company measured employee engagement through the Voice of Employee survey (VoE) and the Net Promoter Score (NPS). The VoE survey is a biennial survey conducted through a chatbot with the focus to capture employee feedback on the Company's cornerstones of providing a Supportive Environment, Learning & Growth and Fairness & Meritocracy. Over the last survey held in FY2019, the employees had continued to rate the parameters as mentioned below significantly high1 in the survey conducted in January 2021. 90% + Advocacy in tarma od the Company Tổ their friends and family as an organisation to wark tee Covid-19: 93% Wwaring &v 92% Aligreneet tu Company's Vision Values atul Stostruy ant these inspiring them to go the extre 0014 Company providing support in their hour of need infrastructure support 0 rols anak/ers · Advocacy in terms of recommending the Company to their friends and family as an organisation to work for · Alignment to Company's Vision, Values and Strategy and these inspiring them to go the extra mile at work · Company providing support in their hour of need · Company providing technology and infrastructure support as role enablers The VoE survey findings were communicated to the leadership team and function heads through automated dashboards Individual team reports were also generated for all second level of supervisory managers. The HR teams conducted focused group discussions to secure insight and actionable feedback based on the survey scores in specific target markets and functions. Here is an opportunity for you to hear the voice of your team Download your Manager Report on the Voice of Employee survey Pulse > | documents > Development & Team Reports > Voice of Employee Team Survey Report DICICI PRUDENTIAL 1 Greater than or equal to 90% score from employees (top 2 box score) ESG REPORT FY2022 | 19



Responsible Investing Therefore, in our journey responsible investing, we have incorporated Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) factors into our investment framework. towards Most of our funds' performance is compared with well recognised external benchmarks. These benchmarks do not have any specific inclusion of ESG considerations. Given our responsibility to deliver fund return above benchmark, we need to maintain a balance between our fiduciary responsibility to our policyholders and ESG risks consideration as part of our investment process. FRAMEWORK We incorporate responsible investing (RI) in our investment processes by adhering to the following: Stewardship ESG Integration STEWARDSHIP POLICY We follow active ownership in our investee companies and have implemented a Stewardship policy which is publicly disclosed (https://www.iciciprulife.com/about-us/corporate-policies.html) · We engage with an investee company on corporate actions of material importance. Some of the issues where we may engage are enhancing shareholder value, capital allocation decisions, improving disclosures, treatment of minority shareholders, compliance with regulations, governance issues etc. · Depending on merit, we may also collaborate with other investors · We have a process on managing potential conflict of interest · We exercise our voting rights in respect of companies where we have material exposure · We disclose our voting actions on a quarterly basis. (https://www.iciciprulife.com/about-us/investor- relations/yearly-public-disclosures.html) Restriction principles 20 ICICI PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED



INTEGRATING ESG INTO OUR INVESTMENT FRAMEWORK ESG issues are an important investment criteria for our investee companies. The processes and structures pertaining to ESG framework were made operational in the financial year 2022. We have subscribed to ESG ratings provided by a recognised external service provider ("service provider"). For investment in equity securities, the investment team refers to ESG ratings and descriptions thereof as provided by the service provider, as an additional input. The team also considers the rating parameters on the basis of which the companies have been rated by the service provider and decides the materiality of the impact on such companies given the business environment in India. For an investee company or potential investee company, where ESG rating by the service provider is not available, the team analyses ESG issues based on the disclosures made by the company. We also incorporate our view on ESG practices as part of our investment arguments while investing into any new company. In case a company has a low ESG rating due to legacy businesses, the fund manager(s), while making the investment decision, may consider the direction in which the company is moving forward and whether the company is likely to improve its ESG ratings. Where a company falls below the average bucket of ratings distribution as defined by the service provider, investment in such a company will require specific approval from the Chief Investment Officer (CIO). Depending on the merit of the business and the need to imitate the benchmark, the decision is taken by the CIO and the exposure is taken with due care. As a part of our investment framework we engage with our investee companies on material ESG impacts. Engagement on material ESG impacts Example Our equity team engaged with an India-based steel company on their low ESG-scores. After the engagement and discussion the company has undertaken certain actions to lower their carbon emissions. The company has implemented clean technology to improve environmental performance. The company has also undertaken additional projects to reduce carbon and dust emissions. Building capability: We have a dedicated person in the investment team to manage the ESG framework. Further, the entire team has been trained to understand ESG issues better while evaluating a company. Signatory to United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI) The Company is the first Indian insurance company to become a signatory to UNPRI in the financial year 2022. It reinforces our commitment towards integrating a responsible framework to promote ESG factors in our investment management decisions. By becoming a signatory to UNPRI we have joined the select global companies supporting sustainable and responsible investments. Launch of ESG-focused Fund As part of our commitment towards promoting sustainable investing we launched the 'Sustainable Equity Fund', an ESG- focused fund in the financial year 2022, and in the process became the first insurance Company in India to do so. ESG REPORT FY2022 | 21



RESTRICTION PRINCIPLES BASED ON ESG FACTORS We have also instituted a screening policy based on governance risks, and industries which could be of social or environment concern. We have outlined below a list of restricted industries out of which coal and thermal power addresses the climate change impact. Restriction principles will apply to any company that derives more than two-third of its revenue from the following industries: n Thermal power Coal Arms & ammunitions or weapons of mass destruction Tobacco Within our equity portfolios, any company in our restriction list cannot have an exposure higher than the respective benchmark exposure. Exposure up to the benchmark weight is allowed in order to protect the interest of policyholders' as part of our responsibility to deliver competitive returns versus the benchmark. The above restriction principles are valid for our equity investments. Restriction principles will not apply in case of investment in bonds of public sector companies or government owned companies which are engaged in the area of infrastructure development or which are of paramount national importance. Going Forward: We will continue to evolve the Responsible Investing framework in order to invest in businesses that are sustainable, socially responsible and better governed as part of our investments portfolio. We are also working on evaluating how we would integrate ESG into Fixed Income investments going forward. Portfolio At March 31, 2022 our total AUM of ₹ 2,404.92 billion is split as follows. At March 31, 2022 over 90% of our Equity Assets Under Management (AUM) was covered by the service provider towards ESG rating. Similarly, over 90% of the fixed income AUM is in sovereign/quasi sovereign securities or in corporate bonds that have been covered by the said external ESG service provider. ESG, as a concept, is still evolving in the domestic fixed income market. Investments towards economic development: For socio- economic development in the country, there is an immediate need for substantial investment in critical sectors including infrastructure and housing. The Indian insurance industry plays a key role in channelising household savings to provide long-term capital needed for infrastructure and housing, as also investing significantly in Government bonds. At March 31, 2022, we have invested ~45% of our AUM in the industries related to infrastructure/housing and Government bonds (₹ 332 billion and ₹ 758 billion respectively). 22 | ICICI PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED



Data Privacy & Security: Making Digitalisation Safe The Company recognises the importance of privacy of personal information. Customers entrust the Company with sensitive information pertaining to their medical history, financial records and other sensitive information which they share during the policy purchase process or during the tenure of the policy. D Given the confidentiality and sensitivity of the data collected, our commitment to privacy throughout the lifecycle of the information including collection, processing, sharing, retention and destruction, is demonstrated by the Company's privacy policy (hosted on www.iciciprulife.com) The policy details the below-mentioned aspects: . Definition of Personal Information and also Sensitive Personal Information · Specifics pertaining to the usage of Information . Circumstances under which the information would be shared with other parties . Collection of Information - covering methods of collection as well as the nature of information that may be collected · Storage, retention and security related aspects of Data Request Management, we have defined responsibilities and processes to evaluate and respond to law enforcement or Government agencies. The data submission is done in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations. We also undertake employee awareness programmes covering the aspects related to data security and privacy such as 'Do's and Don'ts in the areas of privacy & confidentiality, workplace responsibilities, password and email security as well as information and cyber security. Special focused Cyber security workshops are conducted for the leadership teams. Further our employee onboarding and induction process includes information and cyber security aspects. The Company also conducts cyber security workshops for tactical and strategic teams with a view to assess the response to a possible cyberattack, through a simulated and interactive session. Learnings from such workshops help the Company to strengthen the cyber security incident response framework. Our Privacy policy is also in accordance with the applicable laws/regulations. Further, steps are undertaken to protect the confidentiality of the Personal Identifiable Information (PII) provided and ensure protection from unauthorised access or unauthorised alteration, disclosure or destruction. PRIVACY POLICY Additionally, we have controls in place to ensure data is obtained through lawful and transparent means and is also collected and processed only for the stated purpose. Further, on the aspects PRIVACY POLICY ESG REPORT FY2022 | 23



INFORMATION AND CYBER SECURITY FRAMEWORK Our information and cyber security framework implemented ensures that all business information assets are safeguarded by establishing comprehensive management processes throughout the organisation and information is protected adequately through appropriate controls and proactive measures. Our information and cyber security policy is in line with the regulatory and legal requirements. For this policy, best practices have also been adopted from the ISO27001 standard. Our internal governance body, the Information and Cyber Security Committee (ICSC), oversees and guides the implementation of suitable controls. Further, the implementation of our cyber security policy is directed through our information and cyber security department which reports to the ICSC. The ICSC reports to our Executive Risk Committee (ERC) and comprises different functional heads from Risk, Information Technology, Compliance, Operations, Legal, Finance, Human Resources and other members as nominated by the ERC. Updates on Information Security related matters are also discussed at the Board Risk Management Committee every quarter, and the Committee's guidance is sought. Additionally, information pertaining to cyber issues identified in the external environment, as available in the public domain, are also assessed to identify any learnings therefrom. Considering the dynamic nature of the technology ecosystem and emerging cyber threats, Information and Cyber Security controls are periodically benchmarked with the help of external consultants to identify new areas and risk so that effectiveness can be improved. Defence-in-Depth approach has been considered for perimeter security which includes security solutions such as firewall, Intrusion prevention system, anti-malware solutions, Email Security, End point security and dynamic URL filtering. Disciplined and focused application security programme are considered for portals and applications which is aligned to the regular vulnerability assessment of critical IT applications and infrastructure is in place. We have also invested in Threat intel services which allows to proactively identify and address the cyber risks. External consultants and experts are engaged to reassess the controls and solutions implemented and improve the effectiveness. We also have a requisite framework and process in place to investigate incidents and take necessary corrective actions through our Information and cyber security policy and Fraud risk management policy. The Company has implemented a cyber crisis management plan which covers the material crisis scenarios and a mechanism to address all the four aspects pertaining to the same, namely detection, response, recovery and containment. Cyber liability insurance policy provides additional cover to protect from financial liabilities resulting from cyber-attacks. Based on the Information Security Management System (ISMS) controls implemented and the assessment conducted by the certification body, we have been awarded a certification under the ISO 27001:2013 standard. 24 | ICICI PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED



Access to Finance: Towards Financial Inclusion As an organisation, we are deeply invested and committed to the twin objectives of providing adequate and affordable financial protection and promoting savings to achieve financial goals for all sections of society. OFFERING PRODUCTS IN A RESPONSIBLE WAY This goal of financial inclusion is achieved through our wide range of products and our multi-channel distribution architecture which enables customers to choose their preferred mode of purchasing products. Products are also designed keeping in mind various life stages of individuals and the role that insurance plays for each of these life stages On the savings side, our product suite covers the full spectrum of plans ranging from unit-linked products offering market-linked returns at one end, to fully guaranteed return products on the other. Similarly, on the protection side, we have a suite of individual term life, group term life and critical illness products. All our products are approved by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India. As part of our endeavour to offer the right products as per the needs of our customers we employ a framework which recommends the appropriate set of products to each individual based on multiple parameters such as age, risk profile etc. We have specially designed micro-insurance products, aimed at socially and economically weaker sections. a. Our Group micro-insurance range of products such as 'Shubh Raksha' offers protection to the member's family in case of death of the member by paying out a corpus or clearing the financial liabilities. In FY2022, we covered 27.4 million lives, bringing the total coverage under such products to 45.6 million lives at March 2022. These plans offer a sum assured as low as ₹ 1,000 to ₹ 200,000. At March 2022, we have provided a total insurance cover of ₹ 1,488.7 billion under these plans. A substantial part of this cover has been provided to women. b. Our retail micro-insurance term product 'Sarv Jana Suraksha' has premium starting as low as ₹ 50 per annum. We have provided a total cover of ₹ 401.39 million under this product at March 2022. c. Our retail micro-insurance savings product 'Anmol Bachat' enables one to save with as little as ₹ 200 p.a. d. We partner with ICICI Bank in promoting Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Beema Yojana (PMJJBY) a social security initiative. At March 2022, about 524,024 lives are covered under the PMJJBY scheme. e. While designing products, we have incorporated features to specifically address the unique needs of women. For example, our retail protection plans not only offer lower premium rates for women, but also cover women specific illnesses such as breast and cervical cancer. Within the savings segment, our product "Lakshya", offers a higher guaranteed benefit exclusively for women. f. To ensure greater reach and better understanding of our products, we have created sales collaterals in local regional languages. This is part of our endeavour to make our products accessible to all, including the underserved population. ESG REPORT FY2022 | 25



EMPOWERING CUSTOMERS Customer experience: During FY2022, we augmented and improved our service offerings across the customer life cycle at all our customer touch points. ICICI Prudential Life Insurance is one of the top life insurance brands in the industry with a Net Promoter Score(NPS) of 56. Accelerated digital adoption has led to changing customer expectations and our efforts have been to ensure that we offer our services to customers in a way that is faster, easier, intuitive and with minimal touch. We have leveraged technology to deliver 24/7 service to our customers through our multichannel service architecture, anytime, anywhere based on their need and preference. Further, given the rich diversity of our customer profile, we have tried to offer customised offerings for various customer segments. Accordingly, we have leveraged video, voice and vernacular as the three pillars of personalisation and deepened our efforts to build and nurture customer engagement. Our device-agnostic customer service platform - accessible through the website, mobile app, WhatsApp, voice bots, AI- powered chatbot - ensures that we can engage with our customers where they want, when they want, how they want and in the language of their preference. The fact that 91.5% of service related interactions were completed through self-help modules in FY2022 is a testimony of that trend. Digital service delivery options have helped deliver simplified, smooth hassle-free, end to end service and achieve higher productivity and efficiencies. We have been constantly upgrading our digital enablers, making them robust and State of the Art. Constant improvement has enabled us live by our promise and values of Customer First. Our various initiatives at different touch- points have thus ensured: Anytime Anywhere Service Fast and accurate service delivery Customer convenience Awards and Accolades Some of the prominent ones are listed below: CERTIFICATE CONTACT CENTRE SUMMET & AWARDS ---- Customer Centric innovations la Contact Centre WINNIE ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Co. Ltd. CLEAN HOẠCH Customer Centric Innovations in Contact Centre at 2nd edition Future of Contact Centre Summit & Awards CERTIFICATE FUTUREOF CONTACT CENTRE SUMMET & AWARDS ---- Contact Centre Of The Year in Inserance WINNER ICICI Prudential Lite Insarance Co. Ltd Contact Centre Of The Year In Insurance at 2nd edition Future of Contact Centre Summit & Awards CERTIFICATE FUTURE OF CONTACT CENTRE SUMMET & AWARDS ---- Bist WFH Programine Design in Contact Centre WINNIE ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Co. Ltd. Best WFH Programme Design in Contact Centre at 2nd edition Future of Contact Centre Summit & Awards 26 | ICICI PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED



Claims philosophy: At ICICI Prudential Life Insurance, we have adopted a claim philosophy that aims to settle every genuine claim with speed and accuracy. Our claim philosophy is designed to render prompt and courteous service to our claimants through a hassle-free claim settlement journey. During FY2022, the Company received unprecedented surge in claim volumes and the Company made every effort to ensure fast and convenient claim settlement by augmenting capacity and offering door step claim document collection. At an average of 1.461 days of settlement TAT for non-investigated claims in FY2022, we have managed to maintain the benchmark we had set for ourselves in FY2021 (1.36 days) and improved on the 1.59 days average settlement TAT in FY2020. Claims is our most important moment of truth and accordingly we have upheld our commitment by settling ~ 2,60,000 death claims2 and was thus touched more than 2 lakh families. Our Claims Settlement Ratio for retail death claims was 97.8%3 during FY2022 1 Non-investigated claims, calculated from last document received 2 Includes retail and group death claims 3 Number of claims settled/Number of claims intimated during FY2022 INCREASING INSURANCE AWARENESS The Company conducted several activities to increase awareness about life insurance. Given the pandemic, all necessary precautions were observed and digital as a medium was widely used. Below is a snapshot of the activities conducted by the Company: A) Initiatives for creating national awareness 1) Summary of some of the mass awareness campaigns that were conducted: a) A campaign to bring out the importance of staying prepared The objective of the campaign was to educate people about the importance of life insurance. The communication highlighted Olympic winner, Lovlina Borgohain's inspiring journey to bring forth the need for right preparation to overcome hurdles in life. In this campaign, a parallel between her preparation for the Olympics and the preparation needed to secure one's future was established. Digital and social media platforms were used for the campaign. b) An industry awareness campaign to create role and relevance of life insurance The Company participated in the 'Sabse Pehle Life Insurance' campaign; an industry-wide initiative aimed at spreading awareness around the importance of life insurance. This multilingual, multimedia campaign was visible across TV, outdoor, social media and digital platforms. ESG REPORT FY2022 | 27



2) Digital campaigns were also carried out to spread life insurance awareness: a) Creating awareness through the Company's social media handles - Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and LinkedIn i. The benefits of term plans, annuity plans and guaranteed savings plans were highlighted using multiple formats such as static posts, videos and more ii. Key opinion leaders were used to bring alive the importance of goal-based investments and term plans iii. Important days such as Protection Day, Mother's Day, Father's Day, World Cancer Day and many more were used to create awareness about the importance of life insurance plans iv. 'Know your life insurance', a series aimed to simplify common life insurance terminologies was deployed to help customers make informed decisions v. The Company communicated about COVID-19 urging people to stay safe and reassuring them of the Company's commitment towards their safety vi. Information about the Company's 24x7 digital channels was disseminated for policy servicing and query resolution vii. Features of the ICICI Prudential Life Insurance mobile app that helps customers service all their policy needs were communicated b) The Company's website was leveraged to bring alive the important aspects of life insurance in an easy-to- understand manner. Dedicated sections were created to educate customers on the below topics: i. Things to keep in mind while buying a life insurance ii. Importance of retirement planning iii. Importance of term and health insurance iv. Importance of savings plans v. ULIPs and how their features can be beneficial to fulfil goals vi. Grievance redressal processes vii. The Company's easy claim settlement process viii. Easy-to-use online tools and calculators ix. Basic concepts of life insurance 3) Articles in newspapers to spread awareness on life insurance The Company created awareness on key life insurance topics through articles by the senior management. Important topics around life insurance were covered in leading publications such as Business Standard, The Financial Express, Mint, Samachar Jagat, Outlook Money Online, The Echo of India, The Indian Express Online, Chaitanya Lok, Ahmedabad Express, Sanjevani, Divya Bhaskar, Nivesh Manthan, Malayalam Manorama, Dainik Bhaskar, The Telegraph, Financial Express Online, Aj, Business World Online and Dainik Navjyoti. Topics covered were: a) New age term plans that provide life and health cover along with return of premium b) Innovative term plans that offer health and life benefits c) Importance of retirement planning d) Points to consider before investing in ULIPs e) Importance of investing in annuity plans f) Savings products that offer guaranteed income to fulfil one's goals g) Things to consider before purchasing a guaranteed insurance plan h) Awareness about annuity as an option to secure one's retirement i) Changing insurance needs for changing life situations j) Points to consider while buying a life insurance k) Need and importance of buying life insurance 28 | ICICI PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED



4) Life insurance awareness programmes were also carried out in rural areas The Company contacted nearly 620 customers through one- on-one meetings following necessary COVID-19 protocols. Customers were informed about the importance of life insurance, financial protection and goal-based planning. No large gatherings were held due to the ongoing pandemic. A) Initiatives towards educating existing customers of the Company A series of communication was crafted based on insights into customer life stage needs to highlight the importance of the Company's products services and also to create awareness about spurious calls. To create maximum awareness, various mediums such as emails, SMS, WhatsApp and social media posts were used. The following topics were covered: a) Always-on support for customers through the Company's 24x7 digital channels b) Ways of dealing effectively with uncertainty c) Importance of retirement planning d) Features of savings plans e) Need of a term insurance plan with a critical illness cover f) Easy access to policy services on WhatsApp g) Easy steps to pay premiums h) Document pick up service for senior citizens i) Tracking of claims through a chat option j) Various digital channels for raising claims k) List of open branches during the pandemic l) Webinar on building financial resilience m) Query redressal through the Company's IVR n) Access of one's premium paid certificate online o) Importance of updating contact details, nominee contact details and staying connected p) Mobile app for quick and convenient access to policy- related services q) Awareness about phishing attacks and how to stay protected r) Awareness about the importance of staying invested for the long-term B) Activities conducted by the Company in the district of Unakoti (Tripura), Dahod (Gujarat) and Fatehpur (Uttar Pradesh) a) Keeping COVID-19 protocols in mind, the Company carried out activities in Unakoti, Dahod and Fatehpur to create awareness about the benefits of term insurance plans b) Banner campaigns was executed at strategic locations in Unakoti, Dahod and Fatehpur. People were educated about the key benefits of term insurance plans and the importance of protecting their family's future with a life cover c) Awareness campaigns were conducted on Facebook in regional languages to educate locals on staying cautious due to the current pandemic situation and securing their family's future with a life insurance plan d) Interactive sessions were also executed in Fatehpur and Bundi with the objective to incorporate basic insurance education to the lower strata of society as part of a financial education drive in association with the National Centre for Financial Education The Company conducted the above campaigns to ensure that customers are made aware of the need for life insurance and are guided to buy the right life insurance products suited for them. ESG REPORT FY2022 | 29



Meeting Challenges from Sustainability Risks Sustainability risks, particularly ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) related issues are becoming increasingly significant for the life insurance industry. IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS One of the most prominent ESG risks is that of climate change which could potentially have wide ranging implications including (but not limited to) adverse impact on economic growth and investment markets and higher than expected claims due to increased risk of future weather related catastrophes, pandemics as well as possible changes in long-term mortality/morbidity rates. Apart from climate change, there are other emerging risks associated with public health trends such as increase in obesity- related disorders and demographic changes such as population urbanisation and ageing. Sustainability could also be impacted by issues related to customer experience, reputation, corporate governance, data security and privacy. MANAGING RISKS We continue to work towards developing our understanding of ESG risks, including climate change and remaining aware of industry best practice as it develops. The emerging industry consensus, as conveyed by the Climate Financial Risk Forum as well as the Chief Risk Officers (CRO) Forum, is for insurers to treat climate risk as a cross-cutting amplifier of the existing standalone risk type. Accordingly, we have updated our Board approved Risk Policy ("the Policy") during the year by integrating sustainability risks in the risk management framework and climate-related risks are also considered within our existing risk management framework. Our risk appetite statements as articulated in the Policy outline specific constraints that define the total level of risk that we are willing to accept. In particular, we have an appetite statement on customer risk and a framework to monitor customer experience with the objective of taking actions to deliver positive outcome. Likewise, we have an appetite statement on reputation risk and a framework to monitor various factors that could impact our reputation. Our corporate governance framework is aligned to the regulatory guidelines on corporate governance. Our risk governance framework, which forms a part of the overall corporate governance framework, is detailed in the Policy. In addition to the various risk management committees whose roles and responsibilities are specified in the Policy, we have an executive ESG Committee comprising senior leaders which provides oversight on ESG related policies and initiatives and monitors the implementation of the same. 30 | ICICI PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED



With the objective of ensuring sustainable investing, we have implemented a framework for investment decisions that supports mitigation of risks due to climate change as well as other ESG risks by factoring these in its investment decisions. While climate change can also impact morbidity, mortality and persistency and thus, our liabilities, it is expected that the impacts will emerge gradually, and through a change in future assumptions earlier than through actual incidences. The longer-term impact will be managed by our ability to reprice contracts and develop new products if required. Several elements of our risk management framework are applicable even for the management of ESG risks as detailed in the Policy. In particular, we have a framework for information and cyber security as well as business continuity management to analyse emerging risks through regular monitoring of the external and internal environment. We also have a privacy policy to ensure protection of sensitive personal data or information collected. Some of the key control mechanisms in our risk management framework which are applicable for the management of ESG risks are summarised below. Further information on our approach to risk management has been set out in the sections on 'Enterprise Risk Management' and 'Risks and Opportunities' of the Annual Report. 1. Actual vs expected experience: We periodically review the actual experience relative to the expected experience for various risks such as mortality, morbidity etc. and track trends in key indicators such as surrender rates. Such a review provides us insights on emerging risks if we face any. 2. Review of bases: We conduct a review at least annually of the basis of assumptions, which are used for various purposes such as valuation, pricing etc. to assess any change in risk profile. A widespread increase in mortality or morbidity, for example as a result of climate change or emergence of new diseases, may require us to re-evaluate our assumptions. 3. Re-pricing of existing products: We can consider re-pricing of a product, in case of adverse experience, which could materialise due to various factors including sustainability risks. 4. Developing new products: We design exclusions and terms and conditions in consultation with reinsurers and with due regard to market practices to manage the various risks, especially mortality and morbidity risks. In order to deal with any emerging risk, new products could be developed with more suitable features, policy wordings, exclusions and terms and conditions. C 5. Underwriting strategy: We have in place underwriting procedures and processes that must be followed to identify risk at the time of acceptance of the contract for different classes of business. A review of the underwriting strategy is carried out periodically. The underwriting strategy can be adjusted to allow for emerging risks. 6. Reinsurance arrangements: We use appropriate reinsurance arrangements, including catastrophe reinsurance, to manage insurance risk. Such reinsurance arrangements can support in transfer of emerging risks. We assess the effectiveness of our risk controls through periodic stress testing exercises. These exercises analyse our resilience under various adverse scenarios such as severe economic shocks and the impact of catastrophic events such as pandemics. Operational impacts from physical events triggered by climate change or otherwise could also challenge our operational resilience. Some of the key mitigation approaches for the ESG risks which are followed by us are as follows: a) Business Continuity Management (BCM) framework: We have a Business Continuity Management (BCM) framework to ensure resilience and continuity of key products and services at a minimum acceptable level to achieve business as usual presence in the marketplace and safety of human resources. We regularly test our disaster recovery plans and update our business continuity plans to better integrate evolving risks and the findings of our testing programmes. As a part of the BCM framework, business impact analysis and risk assessment is conducted to assess the likely impact on our business processes of adverse events such as natural disasters, pandemic, technical disruption such as cyber-attack and administrative decisions such as lockdown. We have been accredited with the ISO 22301:2019 certification for the BCM systems b) We also have our information and cybersecurity framework along with privacy policy, details of which is shared under the section of 'Making Digitalisation Safe' on page 23. c) We have an Outsourcing Policy and operating framework for the required due-diligence for any new activity or vendor empanelment. The Company has constituted an Outsourcing Committee which oversees the compliance to the IRDAI (Outsourcing of Activities by Indian Insurers) Regulations 2017. Additionally, from the product offering perspective, we have designed a suitability matrix as part of our effort to offer the right product to the customer based on multiple parameters such as life stage needs, risk profile etc. ESG REPORT FY2022 | 31



Governance: Promoting Accountability, Transparency and Ethical Behaviour We consider Corporate Governance as the cornerstone of our vision to build an enduring institution that serves the aspirations of our stakeholders and the community at large. We believe that a strong Corporate Governance framework is essential to promote and sustain our core values of integrity, transparency and accountability whilst ensuring compliance with applicable regulations. Our Board of Directors and senior management take their responsibilities very seriously to set the tone at the top and to provide effective leadership and rigorous oversight. We recognise ethics and governance to be of paramount importance. Through the policies, processes and practices, we have built a strong governance framework. Additionally, our ESG initiatives are monitored at the highest level by the Sustainability Steering Committee comprising of all members of the Management Committee. A. GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE A sound corporate governance mechanism is critical to retain and enhance stakeholders' trust. The Company's corporate governance philosophy is based on an effective independent Board, the separation of the Board's supervisory role from the executive management and constitution/functioning of Board committees The Board primarily concentrates on the direction, control and governance of the Company, through various policy documents. With this perspective in mind, it has shaped the levels of risk adoption, standards of business conduct and ethical behaviour for the Company. A.1.Board Composition and Independent Directors The constitution of the Board of Directors is in compliance with the Companies Act, 2013 (CA2013), SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) Corporate Governance Guidelines, 2016. Additionally, the IRDAI has prescribed certain parameters for assessing 'fit and proper' criteria, which is confirmed by the Directors, at the time of their appointment as Director and annually thereafter. Further, the IRDAI and SEBI have mandated the Boards to prescribe the areas of expertise/skills the Board members are expected to possess. The areas of expertise/skills possessed by the Board members are required to be disclosed in the annual report of the Company. We are also required to submit to IRDAI detailed information about the Directors, upon their appointment to the Board. 32 | ICICI PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED



The Board currently comprises five non-executive independent Directors, three non-executive Directors, representing promoter shareholders and the Managing Director & CEO. Except the Managing Director & CEO, all other Directors including the Chairman of the Board are non-executive Directors. The Chairman of the Company is an Independent Director. The Company recognises that a diverse Board with different thoughts, perspectives, knowledge, skill, industry experience, age and gender will ensure that the Company retains its competitive advantage. The Board Nomination and Remuneration Committee recommends the appointment of Director(s) to the Board of the Company based on the board approved policy on diversity of board of directors and criteria for appointment of Directors. The experience and expertise along with the qualifications of our independent Directors have been briefly articulated in the Directors' Report forming part of this Annual Report. There is an appropriate mix of executive, non- executive and independent Directors. None of the Directors are related to any other Director or employee of the Company. The Board functions as a full Board and through various Committees constituted to oversee specific areas of business operations. Independent Directors are those Directors who have confirmed that they have no material relationship with the Company, in addition to the compliance with other applicable criteria prescribed by the extant regulations. All Directors disclose to the Company and confirm annually about the entities where they are directors/ partners or interested along with the list of all the entities/firms where the Directors or his/her relatives are directors/partners or are interested. Each Director is required to notify the Board of any change in circumstances or transactions which may potentially cause/perceived to cause a conflict of interest or that may question his or her independence. An independent auditor certifies annually about the independence of the Independent Directors based on a separate analysis conducted by such auditor to verify the independence. A.2. Board Independence The Board is responsible for corporate strategy and other responsibilities as laid down under the Companies Act, 2013, SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and IRDAI Corporate Governance Guidelines, 2016. The Managing Director & CEO oversees the implementation of the strategy, achievement of the business plan and day-to-day operations. Each person serving as a Director must devote the time and attention necessary to fulfill the obligations of a director. Key obligations include regular attendance at the meetings, C effective participation and necessary guidance on various agenda items. Directors are also expected to attend the annual general meeting of the Company. In carrying out their duties, the Board has delegated some of its responsibilities to various Committees for effective oversight on the operations. The Board Committees, generally comprises a majority of independent/non-executive Directors and are chaired by independent Directors. There is a detailed and transparent information flow from the senior management to the Board and Board Committees, through well documented agenda notes, to effectively monitor the operations of the Company. The Company has various Board committees for smooth functioning of the organisation which are Audit Committee, Risk Management Committee, Stakeholders' Relationship Committee, Investment Committee, Nomination and Remuneration Committee, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, Customer Service and Policyholders' Protection Committee, Strategy Committee and With Profits Committee. A.3. Board evaluation The Company, with the approval of Board Nomination and Remuneration Committee, has put in place a framework for evaluation of the Directors, Chairman, the Board and its Committees. The performance of the Board is assessed on select parameters relating to roles, responsibilities and obligations of the Board and functioning of the Committees including assessing the quality, quantity and timeliness of the flow of information between the management and the Board that is necessary for the Board to effectively and reasonably perform their duties. The evaluation criteria for the Directors is based upon their participation, contribution and offering guidance to the Management in their capacity as members of the Board/ respective Committees, especially in the areas of their expertise. The evaluation criteria for the Chairman of the Board, besides the general criteria adopted for assessment of all Directors, focuses incrementally on leadership abilities, effective management of meetings and safeguarding the interest of stakeholders. The evaluation criteria for the Committees is based on effective discharge of its terms of reference and its contribution to the overall functioning of the Board. The Chairman of the Board Nomination and Remuneration Committee anchors/initiates the performance assessment/discussion around the outcome of the evaluation of the individual directors, Board Chairman, Board Committees and the Board as a whole, whereas the Board Chairman anchors/initiates the same for the Chairman of the Board Nomination & Remuneration Committee. ESG REPORT FY2022 | 33



B. COMPENSATION POLICY AND PRACTICES We follow prudent compensation practices under the guidance of the Board and the Board Nomination & Remuneration Committee (BNRC). Our approach to compensation is based on the ethos of meritocracy and fairness within the framework of prudent risk management. While we aim to ensure internal and external equity consistent with emerging market trends, our business model and affordability based on business performance set the overarching boundary conditions. The output from the performance management system and talent management system serve as the inputs for administration of the Compensation Policy. Performance objectives are balanced in nature and comprise a holistic mix of financial, customer, people, process, quality, compliance objectives and/or any other parameters as may be deemed fit. For the Managing Director & CEO and other whole- time Directors, compensation is aligned to both financial and non-financial indicators of performance including controls such as risk management, process perspective, customer perspective and others. Ensuring balance in setting performance objectives, capping the payout of performance bonus and following an annual payout cycle ensures that prudent behaviour is suitably encouraged and rewarded. The quantum of performance bonus does not exceed a certain percentage (as stipulated in the Compensation and Benefits policy) of total fixed pay in a year. If the quantum of bonus exceeds a redefined percentage of the total fixed pay, a part of the bonus is deferred and paid over a pre-defined period. For Whole-Time Directors: · The deferred part of the variable pay (performance bonus) may be subject to malus, under which, the Company may prevent vesting of all or part of the variable pay in the event of an enquiry determining gross negligence or integrity breach. · Directors are required to sign clawback agreements for variable pay. In a claw back arrangement, employees agree to return, in case asked for, the previously paid variable pay to the Company in the event of an enquiry determining gross negligence or integrity breach, taking into account relevant regulatory stipulations. · Acts of gross negligence and integrity breach are covered under the purview of the compensation policy. Errors of judgement are not construed to be breaches. In addition, compensation for whole-time Directors is aligned to their pre-defined Key Performance Indicators as approved by the Board and BNRC, and to prudent risk parameters which include the following: · Persistency · Solvency · Claim repudiations · Grievance redressal · Overall compliance status · Expenses of Management · Claim settlement . Overall financial position such as Net-worth position, Assets under management (AUM) etc. Policies Rules Standards Regulations Compliance Law 34 | ICICI PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED



C. COMPLIANCE FRAMEWORK The Company is a registered life insurance company and regulated by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI or Authority). The Authority has been a pivotal and guiding force behind the resilient and well developed insurance sector. IRDAI has notified regulations on various subjects under the provisions of the Insurance Act, 1938 read with the IRDA Act, 1999. In order to comply with the regulatory framework, the Company has inter alia formulated various internal policies/procedures and an employee Code of Conduct, which govern day to day activities. The compliance function disseminates the information regarding relevant laws, regulations, and circulars related to insurance and anti-money laundering to various functions. It also serves as a reference point for seeking clarifications on applicable insurance laws, regulations, and circulars issued by the Regulator. The Compliance Policy serves as the guiding force in building the compliance culture within the organisation. Anti-Money Laundering: We take the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing very seriously and are committed to implement and maintain industry-leading policies and standards. We strive to ensure that the Company's products and services are not used as a vehicle for laundering unlawfully derived money or to finance terrorist acts. We have in place an annually reviewed Board approved policy on Anti-Money Laundering (AML) and countering financing of terrorism (AML), through which it has put in place procedures to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. With the aim of mitigating risk, this policy focusses on customer identification (including enhanced due diligence in high risk cases) and verification, regular on-going monitoring of customer transactions and makes necessary reporting to the Financial Intelligence Unit - India. We have processes in place to implement a robust risk-based approach in conducting customer due diligence, including enhanced due diligence wherever required. We have also deployed an automated sanctions screening tool to ensure that the Company does not transact or enter into a relationship with entities sanctioned by various domestic and international organisations for their involvement in money laundering or terrorist financing. Further, we provide AML training to our employees and agents, both at the onboarding stage as well as at regular intervals. These trainings focus on employees' role in managing risk, types of risks they may encounter, and processes used to manage these risks. AML training was imparted to 1,28,491 agents and 13,447 employees during FY2022. REQUIREMENTS COMPLIANCE STANDARDS LAM Further, we have established a mechanism for employees and agents to report suspicious behaviour to the Money Laundering Principal Officer. Lastly, the AML Policy and Procedures are reviewed by the Internal Audit function at a fixed periodicity, and improvements to the same are suggested. Monitoring and Compliance Audit: The Compliance, Risk, and Internal Audit teams undertake a range of monitoring activities during the year to provide assurance that business units are complying with applicable laws, regulations, and company policies. The compliance team also monitors the adequacy of the compliance framework across the Company in conjunction with the Internal Audit function through an integrated risk-based audit plan. Key issues observed as part of this monitoring are reported to the Board Audit Committee, and implementation of recommendations is actively monitored. Additionally, a quarterly compliance certificate signed by the Managing Director & CEO based on confirmations from the respective functional heads, is placed before the Board Audit Committee and the Board of Directors. Issues/deviations, if any, are reported to the Board Audit Committee. Further, the internal audit team reviews the same annually. The heads of control functions such as Compliance and Internal Audit report to the Board Audit Committee. Also, the Internal Audit function conducts compliance monitoring and audit of the compliance function. ESG REPORT FY2022 | 35



D. RISK MANAGEMENT We recognise that risk is an integral element of our business and managed acceptance of risk is essential for the generation of shareholder value. We have a risk governance structure which consists of the Board, the Board Risk Management Committee (BRMC) and the Executive Risk Committee (ERC) which is supported by appropriate sub-committees. Our risk philosophy is outlined in the Board approved risk policy which is reviewed by the Board at least annually. The Board and the Committees play a key role in the identification, measurement, monitoring and control of the different risks faced by us. The BRMC continually reviews the Asset Liability Management (ALM), to monitor all risks across our various lines of business and establish appropriate systems to mitigate such risks. The BRMC reviews our risk appetite and risk profile in detail in addition to overseeing the effective operation of the risk management system and advises the Board on key risk issues in a timely manner. This includes monitoring and reviewing the aggregated view of our risk profile in addition to the individual risk profiles, reporting to the Board details of the risk exposures and the actions taken to manage the exposures. Besides, it also includes setting the risk tolerance limits and assessing the cost and benefits associated with a risk exposure and reviewing compliance with relevant regulatory guidelines. Our approach to management of sustainability risks is summarised in the section of "Meeting challenges from sustainability risks". Further details of how we manage risks have been set out in the sections on 'Enterprise Risk Management' and 'Risks and Opportunities' of the Annual Report.' Audit process: The Internal Audit Department (IAD) of the Company acts as an independent entity and reports to the Audit Committee of the Board. The objective of IAD is to assist Audit Committee of the Board and Management of the organisation, in the effective discharge of their responsibilities, by furnishing them with assurance, analysis, appraisals, recommendations, advice and information concerning the activities reviewed, thereby promoting an effective control environment. The IAD has an unrestricted access to the Audit Committee Chairperson and the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer (MD& CEO). The Head-Internal Audit reports directly to the Audit Committee of the Board and administratively reports to the Chief Risk & Compliance Officer. The IAD has developed a Risk Based Audit Plan (RBAP) and the same has been approved by the Audit Committee of the Board. The basic philosophy of RBAP is to provide a reasonable assurance to the Audit Committee of the Board and management about the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management and control framework in the Company. The scope of internal audit work includes the review of risk management procedures, internal control systems, information systems, vulnerability assessments and governance processes. Key audit observations and recommendations are reported to and discussed at the Audit Committee of the Board. Implementation of the recommendations is actively monitored. Investment Framework: We recognise our responsibility, as insurance companies to protect the interests of the policyholders, which demands that we have in place good governance practices for sound long-term investment in addition to the robust risk management framework. The Board-approved Investment Policy sets out the framework and guidelines for our investments. This policy, inter alia, encompasses aspects concerning liquidity for smooth operations, compliance with prudential regulatory norms on investments, risk management or mitigation strategies to ensure commensurate yield on investments and above all protection of policyholders' funds. The Board through Board Investment Committee reviews compliance to the Investment Policy. Further, to the above as an investor in various securities and an entity whose securities are listed, we also have a Code of Conduct to regulate, monitor and report trades in Securities by Designated Employees (Insider Trading Code). This Code prescribes norms and restrictions in undertaking personal investment by select employees, given the Company invests its policyholders' funds. 36 | ICICI PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED



E. ETHICS AND POLICIES We are committed to adopting the highest business, governance, ethical and legal standards in the conduct of our operations. We promote responsible behaviour amongst employees through various measures and initiatives. We have a Code of Conduct ("Code") which defines the professional and ethical standards that employees and Directors need to adhere to, in compliance with all applicable laws, regulations and internal policies. All employees confirm that they have read and understood the Code of Conduct annually which includes aspects related to information and cyber security, Whistle Blower policy and anti-bribery and anti-corruption. All new employees are also required to confirm that they have read and understood the Code after joining. We regularly conduct awareness campaigns to familiarise employees with the various policies to ensure adherence to the highest standards of ethical behaviour. Apart from the Code of Conduct, we have established policies for employees including the Policy against Sexual Harassment at Workplace, Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption Policy, Anti-Money Laundering Policy, Compliance Policy, Framework for Managing Conflict of Interest, Insider Trading Code, Whistle Blower Policy (WB Policy), Information and Cyber Security Policy and Fraud Risk Management Policy. To administer and ensure compliance to the Code and applicable laws and regulations, we have defined Employee Service Rules (ESR) that apply to all employees of the Company or of any other subsidiary of the Company and/or employees who are on fixed term contract or any other form of employment contract. The objective of the ESR is to define the terms and conditions of appointment and service, the rules of conduct that employees need to adhere to at the workplace and to lay down the procedure of grievance redressal and disciplinary action in the event of a breach of the Code or any of the Company's policies, statutory laws or regulations as maybe applicable. The ESR and the WB Policy together constitute the framework for classification, enquiry, redressal and reporting of all employee grievances pertaining to any breach of the Code or Company policy or applicable statutory laws and regulations. We have a framework for managing Conflict of Interest that clarifies the principles and the measures to manage potential conflicts of interest at the individual and the organisation level, in order to conduct its activities in an ethical and transparent manner. We have a Policy against Sexual Harassment at Workplace and awareness of the policy is created amongst all employees periodically. We believe in providing a safe working environment at the workplace. We are also compliant with the provisions mentioned in The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 including the constitution of an Internal Complaints Committee. Out of the 12 complaints reported during the FY2022, 8 complaints were duly investigated and acted upon as at March 31, 2022. The balance 4 cases, though within the Turn Around Time (TAT) as defined under The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, were under investigation as at March 31, 2022. Of these 4 pending cases, we hereby clarify that 2 complaints stand resolved as at the date of the report. We have in place a policy on Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption (ABC) and Operational Guidelines for Acceptance of Gifts, Entertainment and Sponsored Travel. As per our ABC Policy, employees and other persons representing the Company are prohibited from offering, accepting, paying or authorising any bribes or any form of corruption in any business interaction that involves the Company and government officials, our customers, vendors, or employees. Our Code of Conduct restricts any employee from making any payment to or for anyone for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or for obtaining any favourable action, including to any Government agency or its representatives. While the ABC policy aspects are covered in employee induction, refresher classroom training is conducted for all sensitive departments. Further, we contractually bind our intermediaries and other entities we enter into agreements with to not indulge in acts of bribery or corruption. Our standard contracts contain an ABC clause. Our ABC Policy provides guidance to our business teams on how to deal with public servants and other potential stakeholders. The ABC Policy is a part of our governance framework. During FY2022, the Company further developed its training modules and delivered classroom trainings on ABC across functions of the Company. Training sessions on ESG REPORT FY2022 | 37



ABC were conducted for 8,644 new employees in FY2022. Additionally, risk-based training of appropriate employees was conducted through classroom/online mode for 700 employees in FY2022. Further, all employees were required to go through a refresher document on ABC and renew their commitment to the ABC policy of the Company. It focused on model conduct and the implementation of the Company's ABC and Gift policy and procedures. The Company ABC policy is also available on the intranet sites for all employees and agents to access. An ABC audit is carried out by the internal audit function of the Company annually and the ABC Policy is also reviewed annually. Whistle Blower Policy: The purpose of the Whistle Blower Policy is to encourage employees to report matters without the risk of subsequent victimisation, discrimination or disadvantage. Our Whistle Blower policy covers all employees, including Working Directors of the Company. The policy encourages any employee or Working Director to report any breach of any law, statute or regulation, issues related to accounting policies and procedures, acts resulting in financial loss or loss of reputation, misuse of office, suspected/actual fraud and criminal offences, non-compliance to anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy. Besides, it also includes leak of any unpublished price sensitive information (UPSI) pursuant to SEBI Regulations or any such information prescribed pursuant to any regulations/laws, as amended from time to time. The employee may send a communication directly in writing through a letter to Head-Internal Audit or Chairman, Audit Committee. The Head-Internal Audit then takes the complaint to the Audit Committee for directions and guidance. The Whistle Blower Policy provides a secure mechanism (with an option to remain anonymous) to ensure that concerns are properly raised, appropriately investigated, addressed and reported to the Audit Committee of the Board. The Company recognises this mechanism as an important enabling factor in administering good governance practices. Any employee who makes a disclosure or raises a concern under the Whistle Blower Policy will be protected, if the employee: · Discloses the information in good faith · Believes it to be substantially true . Does not act maliciously nor makes false allegations and · Does not seek any personal or financial gain from the Company There were no reported cases during FY2022 relating to breach of accounting policies and procedures. The policy has been periodically communicated to the employees and an extract of the same has also been hosted on the Company's intranet and details pertaining to establishment of a vigil mechanism are hosted on the website at https://www.iciciprulife.com/about-us/corporate- policies.html Grievance Redressal Policy for Customers: We have a Board approved Grievance Redressal Policy for customers that includes the redressal framework for ensuring prompt and effective resolution of grievances. Our service recovery team is responsible for investigating, evaluating and deciding on the resolution of grievances. The service recovery team operates as an independent central grievance redressal unit to ensure that the resolution provided for each and every grievance is done in a fair and impartial manner. We offer multiple channels to report grievances such as branches, e-mail/letter, website/mobile app, contact centre, sourcing intermediary and social media. Our approach to grievance resolution includes a thorough review of the profile and concerns of the customer, the product offered, fact-finding and evidence gathering both from the customer and sourcing intermediary (as maybe applicable). We aim to offer the best possible solution to the customer after taking into account the findings of the investigation and extant policies, rules and guidelines. In case of dissatisfaction with the resolution, the customer has the option to escalate to the next level for redressal. The Company's escalation mechanism comprises the Company's touchpoint at level 01, Grievance Redressal Officer at level 02 and Grievances Redressal Committee at level 03. External avenues for redressal such as the Ombudsman office and the IRDAI are available to the policyholder and the details of the same are made available on the Company's website and in the policy document. 38 | ICICI PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED



Commitment to the Environment ENERGY EFFICIENCY MEASURES Given the large footprint, our focus is on minimising the adverse environmental impact of energy consumption by promoting responsible consumption through energy saving devices and limiting energy use through temperature control and regulated hours. Whilst we have always invested in the latest energy efficient equipment, we have taken several measures and actively invested in initiatives for energy conservation as follows: 1. Inverter AC and VRF AC in place of conventional ACs - We are in the process of installing Variable Refrigerant Flow (VRF) AC/Inverter AC systems progressively, as and when the need for replacement or new system arises at our offices. Locations were identified where conventional AC are still deployed, made phase-wise plan for replacement of conventional AC to Inverter AC/VRF AC based on tonnage, vintage of the AC and repair cost incurred. Presently installed inverter AC & VRF AC systems is 43% of our total deployment. In FY2022, we had identified 118 locations and deployed 1022 TR capacity Inverter AC/VRF AC - contributing to incremental reduction of 1308 Tons carbon footprint. Till date, carbon footprint reduction through this initiative is 3,647 Tons. Our newly deployed air conditioners are using environment friendly refrigerants, which will significantly reduce global warming potential as well as ozone depletion potential. 2. Light Emitting Diode (LED) lighting in place of conventional tube-lights - LED lighting deployment contributes to energy saving of 1W/sq.ft. and also meets standard lux levels. Identified locations with conventional lighting, made phase wise plan - choice of locations was based on vintage and energy charges. 94% of our office space is now equipped with LED lighting. In FY2022, 77 locations comprising 63,984 sq.ft. area were identified and LED lighting deployed - contributing to reduction of incremental 372 Tons carbon footprint. Till date, carbon footprint reduction is 2,080 Tons. 3. LED signage in place of conventional signage - Deployment of LED signage contributes to increased lux levels. 76% of our signage has been converted to LED signage. Team has identified locations with conventional signage, made phase wise plan - choice of locations was based on vintage and energy charges. In FY2022, 45 locations having 5,142 sq.ft. LED signage deployed - contributing to reduction of incremental 91 Tons carbon footprint. Till date, carbon footprint reduction is 839 Tons. 4. ACs in all locations maintained at 24 (+/- 1) degree C and switched off whenever people are not present at branches. 5. 15% of overall office space is fitted with Sensor based lighting to optimise electricity spends. 6. Periodic maintenance is undertaken for major equipment including Air Conditioners (AC) which contributes to ~80% of the electricity consumption. 7. Implementing "Green energy" at major offices in Mumbai to reduce carbon footprint. ESG REPORT FY2022 | 39



AIR QUALITY IMPROVEMENT Given the large footprint, our focus is on minimising the adverse environmental impact of energy consumption by promoting responsible consumption through energy saving devices and limiting energy use through temperature control and regulated hours. Whilst we have always invested in the latest energy efficient equipment, we have taken several measures and actively invested in initiatives for energy conservation as follows: WATER INITIATIVES Being a financial service entity, water usage is limited to office use purposes, however, we have undertaken appropriate precautions to conserve water through measures as below: Conventional water-based urinals in our offices are being converted phase wise to water-less urinals. 38% of our urinals have been converted to water-less urinals as on date. As of March 31, 2022, total 230 waterless urinals deployed across our branches, contributing to yearly saving of 345 Tons of water and carbon footprint reduction of 173 Tons. 1. Improved air quality by deploying live plants within our office premises - 142 branches, 448,846 sq.ft. i.e. 57% of our total office area. 2. Ultraviolet germicidal irradiation (UVGI) lights and High efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filters installed in air conditioners to improve air attributes. 3. Deployment of air purifiers to enhance quality of breathable air. Aerator taps have been installed at all branch offices and contributing to 19.2 Tons of water saving & 9.6 Tons of carbon footprint reduction. 100% of our taps have been fitted with aerators as on March 31, 2022. Also, our two largest offices are equipped with sensor-based taps. Our head office has a sewage treatment plant. High time I care, before it is rare. Do yourself a favour, Be a Water Saver Conserve water, Every Drop Counts + Sove Water # Save Environment DICICI PRUDENTIALTR DICICHESLEENTALT? DICICE BRLEENTALT? 40 | ICICI PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED



WASTE MANAGEMENT AND REDUCTION Waste reduction and management has been one of the focus area to improve our operational efficiency as well as minimise the impact on the environment. The waste generated through our operations can be broadly classified as dry waste (primarily paper waste), e-waste and wet waste (primarily from the cafeteria). Since the Company is a financial services entity, there is no hazardous waste WASTE REDUCTION Other than our core business operations, we aim to reduce waste generation and more specifically the usage of paper through · Managed print services avoiding unnecessary prints as well as encouraging employees to go paperless · Centralised call logging facility for office stationery for tracking and reducing consumption · Digitisation of Sales stationary Another big focus area for us has been replacement of disposable paper cups as they had high usage and wastage and were difficult to recycle. We have been encouraging employees to use reusable mugs and glasses. I THINK BEFORE I PRINT being generated. Similarly, our raw material procurement is very limited in scope and it is largely confined to paper and electronic equipment. We believe in reduce, reuse, recycle and manage solid waste efficiently. Reduction of paper consumption has been a key strategic thrust. The organisation has stopped usage of single use plastic water bottles across all offices and replaced them with reusable water jar and glasses. Plastic garbage bags have been replaced with bio-degradable bags and plastic dustbins with steel dustbins. At our cafeteria in our largest offices in Mumbai, we use reusable plates. MS Teams have been given to all employees for video conferencing purpose, hence reducing business travel to a significant extent. I SAVE PAPER TO SAVE TREES REFUSE OR REUSE #NO_SINGLE_USE_PLASTIC · Save Paper # Save Environment AICICI PRUDENTIAL Part of ESQ Intiative Save Paper # Save Environment DICICI PRUDENTIAL Part of ESQ Initiative PICICI PRUDENTIAL Part of ESG Initiative ESG REPORT FY2022 | 41



WET WASTE REDUCTION INITIATIVES Our organisation has focused approach on reducing wet waste by creating awareness amongst employees on food wastage. At our head office and back office cafeterias, we display the daily E-WASTE DISPOSAL On the completion of asset lifecycle, IT assets are disposed to recycling vendors through laid down process of collection. The recycling vendor next dumps the assets in a warehouse where they first sort & segregate the assets as per category (e.g. televisions, printers, computers, laptops, etc.). Next comes the pre-sorting stage where physical case is broken down to segregate plastic, mercury, CRT glass, copper etc. After the removal of conterminous materials, the assets are put through a series of processes in primary shredder, secondary shredder, eddy current separator etc. At the end, e-waste recycling vendor gives us a certificate (sample certificate attached). E-waste such as computers, printers, switches, scanners have been the main e-waste generated. 18,162 kgs of e-waste generated was disposed through authorised recyclers since FY2019 and 9,763 kgs in FY2022. Re-cycling certificates have been received from selected government authorised e-waste vendors. E-WASTE TOXIC KILLS !!! #Manage_Your_E-waste quantum of food being wasted and the number of people who could have been fed with the food that was wasted. At our head office we have a system to convert wet waste into manure. The organisation has e-waste collection bins at 50 branches Pan India for employees and visitors to deposit their e-waste so that same can be disposed through certified E-waste handlers for disposal. 1,590 Kgs of E-waste disposal done in FY2022. Sustainability consultant finalisation: The organisation is in process to partner with a sustainability consultant for Carbon Footprint (CFP) framework set-up, verification and assurance from certification agencies. The aim is to disclose our CFP in BRSR in subsequent years and lay down a sustainable roadmap to achieve carbon neutrality and finally net zero. Environment Policy: The policy has been framed and presently being reviewed by management. We will ensure implementation of the same across the organisation. GROW PLANTS NOT E-WASTE #Manage_Your_E-Waste 100 #Save_Earth #Save_Environment BICICI PRUDENTIAL Part of ESO Initiative 1 THE PLANET WITHOUT US #Manage_Your_E-Waste #Save Earth #Save Environment - BICICI PRUDENTIAL Part of ESG Initiative #Save_Earth #Save_Environment DICICI PALDENTIAL Part of ESO Initiative 42 | ICICI PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED



CSR: Contributing to Society PROMOTING INCLUSIVE GROWTH Our vision is to build an enduring institution that serves the protection and long-term saving needs of customers with sensitivity. In line with our vision, we endeavour to proactively support meaningful socio-economic development in India and enable a larger number of people to participate in and benefit from India's economic progress. Our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy is our commitment to provide resources and support activities focused on enhancing economic and social development by supporting programmes around the focus areas of education, skill development and sustainable livelihood, health care for the under-privileged, encouraging employee volunteering and extending support for disaster relief and rehabilitation. 30% 70% The Company CSR budget for FY2022 was ₹ 67.6 million. The Company has spent ₹ 68.2 million for support against COVID-19 pandemic and CSR initiatives. ICICI Foundation Company related CSR activities The Company contributes 70% of its annual CSR budget to ICICI Foundation for Inclusive Growth (ICICI Foundation) which undertakes CSR initiatives for the ICICI group and the balance 30% of the CSR funds is deployed to directly undertake various initiatives to serve the underserved. ESG REPORT FY2022 | 43



Skill development programme through ICICI Academy for Skills: The Company supports ICICI Foundation's project on skill development through sustainable livelihood. ICICI Academy for Skills (Academy) provides vocational training to youth from economically weaker sections so that they can undertake economic activity for a sustainable livelihood. The Academy offers industry relevant and job oriented vocational training in 14 technical and office skills across 28 operational centres across the country. The Company has supported 1,558 trainees in the FY2022. Home Health Aide - Intubation training ICICI Academy for Chris 14 Diverse Courses 28 Academy Centres 21 States/Union Territories 86% Placement ratio Electrical and Home appliance repair training at ICICI Academy for Skills 44 | ICICI PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED



Assessment for ICICI Foundation Livelihood initiative ICICI Academy for Skills - The project performance and impact of the initiatives of ICICI Foundation have been analysed and captured in the following key areas as below: Impact assessment for FY2021 · High relevance of the programme in the context of economic realities · Highly inclusive programme in terms of female participation, geographical coverage, promoting females in technical skills · 86% placement during COVID-19 · 72% part of workforce and 8 28% pursuing upskilling/higher education · High satisfaction scores · Collaborative programme with convergence with Government · Scores well on benchmarking with other training initiatives · Social Return on Investment (SROI) of 8.34x · Positive impact on the 'ICICI' brand The Impact Assessment report in detail can be viewed on below link on Company website https://www.iciciprulife.com/content/dam/ icicipru/about-us/corporate_policies/Impact Assessment from IFIG.pdf COVID-19 Vaccination programme: The Company in partnership with ICICI Foundation has conducted vaccination programmes for children (aged 12 to 18 years) and adults in the rural districts of Maharashtra (Ahmednagar, Aurangabad, Dhule, Nanded, Nandurbar, Nashik and Palghar). Over 1,55,000 people were covered under the vaccination programme at gratis. Of the beneficiaries covered, 38% included children, 56% adults and 6% were senior citizens. SAFETY Vaccination Programme - Children कोविड - 10 टीकाकर लसीकरण भियान VACCINATION Vaccination Programme - Adults ESG REPORT FY2022 | 45



CSR INITIATIVES Consumer awareness and education The Company continued its commitment towards awareness of proactive health management, financial preparedness and the significance of having an electronic Insurance Account (eIA). Through its communication "Body ke Missed Calls", the Company educated customers to pay attention to the early signs of critical health issues, go for regular health check-ups and be financially prepared. The message was disseminated through radio, the Company's social media handles and through an advertorial. The programme reached out to 61.4 million consumers. To know more on the programme, visit www.listentobody.com Education and Skilling and sustainable livelihood: · Holistic development of underprivileged children The Company has partnered with Catalysts for Social Action for programme 'Asha' which was aimed at supporting underprivileged/orphan/abandoned children living in child care homes to secure education, skilling, vocational training, food & nutrition, health & hygiene. The programme has concluded in FY2022. Are you ignoring your body's calls? These could be signs of a critical health issue Constant body pain Fatigue Intermittent fever > Answer your body's calls and get o health check-up done > Protect yourself financially > Open an Electronic Insurance Account (elA) A public interest initiative by ICICI PRUDENTIAL! LIFE INSURANCE CHIMNOOC MAM/2022/208/7605 During the programme tenure, 129 underprivileged children living in three child care homes in Madhya Pradesh have been supported annually. Besides holistic development of children, the 'After Care' initiative is a key component of the programme for children aged 18 and above, which aims to integrate them into the society through support on higher education, skilling and life skills. 48 children are beneficiaries of 'After care' intervention and are pursuing higher education/vocational training/jobs of their choice. Menstrual hygiene kits distributed under programme Asha 129 underprivileged children living in three child care homes in Madhya Pradesh have been supported annually 46 | ICICI PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED Children playing football



2 Testimonial from Catalysts for Social Action ICICI Prudential is our anchor partner in Madhya Pradesh. This partnership began when things were very nascent in the State and with continuing support we have constantly expanded our work and served more children year on year. Our heartfelt appreciation to ICICI Prudential for patiently walking the journey along with us. We are proud of what we have achieved and this could not have been possible without your support! Thank you! - Anandhi Yagnaraman, CEO - Catalysts for Social Action 99- Success Story Horse riding trainer with Sky Wings Equestrian Academy, Trivandrum earning ₹ 20,000 p.m. Little Kareena was rescued from the streets by the Railway Police and they got her admitted to a childcare home with CSA. Growing KAREENA CHOUDHARY up from a young child to a sincere and hardworking girl, she has performed exceedingly well in studies as well as co-curricular activities such as Kathak and sports. In discussions with Kareena, CSA formulated a career plan with her wherein she was enrolled in horse riding training and was selected in State Equestrian Academy, Bhopal, Government of Madhya Pradesh. She was also selected for the National level championship for horse riding. Kareena believes that with the support received, she has got a new direction in her life and is confident of helping her family in financial aspects. 20 Computer education for children at child care homes through Catalysts for Social Action Success Story Senior Advisor with Concentrix, Delhi earning ₹ 22,000 p.m. Vulnerable circumstances got Charles and his little sister enrolled with a child care home with CSA at a CHARLES SAMUEL very young age. Charles has always been a sincere and enthusiastic child. His dedication got him to secure an impressive 73% in his Class XIIth Board Exams. CSA encouraged him to continue his studies and designed a career plan for him post counselling sessions. Charles secured 300th Rank out of the 6,000 students who appeared for the entrance exams for Bachelor's in Business Administration (BBA). He not only secured a good score at the completion of the course at Devi Ahilya Vishwa Vidyalaya, Indore, but also secured a suitable job for himself. He dreams of further pursuing an MBA and wants to support his sister to become financially independent. ESG REPORT FY2022 | 47



. Skilling and securing sustainable livelihoods of underprivileged rangeland communities The Company partnered with World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF)-India in FY2018 to support skilling and sustainable livelihood of the local communities living in the Himalayan regions with the objective of creating diversified livelihood opportunities and addressing the challenge of sustainable rangeland management practices. Through the programme, eco-tourism and handicraft production have been undertaken. Around 40 homestays and 6 ecocafes have been set up to host tourists; and over 500 women from local communities have been trained on handicraft production. Further, a handicraft production facility has been set up at Tsokar. The programme also aimed to address the challenge of sustainable rangeland management practices due to over exploitation of rangelands. A comprehensive rangeland preservation plan has been developed for livelihood security and a functional pasture management in Pir Panjal and Ladakh regions of Himalayas. The programme concluded in FY2022. Handicraft training at Tsokar vide World Wide Fund for Nature India --- Handicrafts training for Women in Pir Panjal vide World Wide Fund for Nature India Local women being trained in handicrafts and carpet designing Environmental sustainability and ecological balance The Company partnered with WWF-India in FY2019 to prevent retaliatory killing of predators by supporting the villagers financially for their loss of cattle. The financial support extended aimed to soften the blow of losing a critical livelihood option. The three-year programme was implemented across WWF-India's priority tiger landscapes in India, namely, Brahmaputra landscape (Assam), Western Ghats Nilgiris landscape (Tamil Nadu, Kerala, and Karnataka) and Terai Arc landscape (Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar). The programme concluded in FY2022. Over 3,800 villagers have been supported through the programme. 3,800 villagers were supported under the programme 48 ICICI PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED



Testimonial from WWF - India WWF India works with key stakeholder groups across multiple conservation priority landscapes to secure the country's unique flora and fauna. Support from ICICI Prudential has been critical in our efforts to secure high altitude rangelands in the western Himalayas in collaboration with local communities and the local administration. Also, important has been the support for implementation of the Interim Relief Scheme administered by WWF India across several states of the country to provide partial financial relief to livestock owners who have lost their livestock to large carnivores. We greatly value the support from ICICI Prudential and their commitment to the cause of wildlife conservation in India. - Yash Shethia, Director, Wildlife Landscape WWF - India Healthcare The Cancer Care programme with Tata Memorial Hospital (TMH), Mumbai to support medical treatment of under-privileged children and youth diagnosed with Cancer concluded in FY2022. Through this programme, whilst the plan was to support 120 children/youth, 166 children/youth have been supported with treatment and medication. As the pandemic is nearing an end and we continue to offer treatment to Cancer patients unabated, I take this opportunity to thank all our donors and stakeholders who relentlessly stood by us, and ICICI Prudential stands one amongst them. We acknowledge the mutual collaboration established between us which recognises the necessity for addressing financial needs of children, adolescents and young adults treated for Cancer. Your esteemed CSR Team gracefully touched the lives of approximately 166 children (Male and Female), adolescent and young adults over the past three years. The valued financial contribution takes a huge burden off the families' shoulders. We look forward to further strengthening the bond of trust and support touching more young lives who aspire to see a brighter future with your help. We again thank the CSR Team of ICICI Prudential and its stakeholders who have stood by us relentlessly for the past five years. - Dr. Vinit Samant Tata Memorial Hospital EMORI PITAL, M SERVICE TATA MUMBAI RESEARCH मुंबई FIGLIA टाटा EDUCATION मारक अस्पताल, ESG REPORT FY2022 | 49



Q Employee Volunteering Initiatives The Company encourages the spirit of giving amongst its employees by providing various volunteering platforms, as below: 1Care1Share iCare.iShare Payroll Giving programme - An online donation platform partnered with GiveIndia, offers employees freedom to contribute monthly to any cause of their choice from their payroll. The Company makes a matching contribution to the donation made by the employee for the Payroll Giving programme. 9 000 0 800 Employees participated in various volunteering initiatives हिन्दू बाल सेवा सदन वन्दे मातरम, बन्दे - DIX सुहासिभीम सुमधुर DaanUtsav programme - The Company celebrates the festival of 'DaanUtsav' in October every year by fulfilling small joys of children living in child care homes of Madhya Pradesh. This year too the employees spread smiles with an effort to protect and safeguard the vulnerable children by donating essentials such as hand sanitisers, masks, hygiene kits and many more indoor games and stationary supplies to keep them engaged during the pandemic. Regular Health Check Up for children Sharing Smiles and more ... Flying Disks Mack Saneurer DAAN UTSAV --- Track Pants Stationary Cha Gantes for kids Cartum Boud Story Books Ropes Cricket lüit 1Care Share Further, the Company also supported the DaanUtsav campaign for ICICI Foundation, wherein employees donated generously through their payroll towards social causes related to the loss of lives and livelihoods caused by the pandemic. Testimonial from GiveIndia ICICI Prudential has been a huge supporter of the GiveIndia employee giving programme and has been our valued partner since 2008. Driven towards philanthropy and nurturing a culture of giving, ICICI Prudential team has enabled its employees to pledge their contributions towards causes that need the maximum support. The organisation has also been very generous to match all employee contributions. We are super proud of this association and look forward to scaling the impact together. - Somedutta Chatterjee Head - Corporate Partnerships (GiveIndia) 50 | ICICI PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED



Annexures ANNEXURE I: CERTIFICATION ARCHITECTURE AND EDUCATION ASSISTANCE POLICY Certification architecture Employees in frontline sales roles are certified based on three levels of proficiency as illustrated in the image below. The first level is 'Foundation' for the new employees with < 6 months vintage with the objective of certifying them on core terminology & skills. The second level is 'Advanced' for the vintage employees with the objective of enabling performance via segmented training approach and the third level is 'Master' for the high performers with the objective of making them future ready through differentiated training interventions. The certification architecture enables them to become job ready with knowledge on all products and processes and also caters to creating best in class financial sales professionals with comprehensive knowledge and skills. The certification architecture is executed through digital testing on the learning management system. Advanced Master Foundation AQUIRE in-depth channel knowledge FUTURE ready via differentiated interventions UNDERSTAND core terminology & skills New joinees Vintage Enabling progression via segmented training approach Education assistance policy The education assistance policy encourages employees in specialist and niche roles to take up certified courses offered by various educational institutes as given below: · Actuarial Courses and Investment Courses · Other Business courses - o Insurance courses and certification (Insurance Institute of India , Chartered Insurance Institute, LIMRA, LOMA, LUCTF) o Chartered Accountancy (Institute of Chartered Accounts of India) o Company Secretary (Institute of Companies Secretaries of India) o Certified Financial Planner (Financial Planning standards Board Of India) o Part time MBA programme (Distance education such as NMIMS, Symbiosis, ICFAI, IGNOU etc.) o Certified Internal Auditor (Institute of Internal Auditors) o Certified Information Systems Auditor (Information system Audit and Control Association) o Other courses based on role requirements ESG REPORT FY2022 | 51



ANNEXURE II: CROSS-FUNCTIONAL COUNCILS Various cross-functional committees led by senior leaders have been constituted to ensure clarity, alignment and cascading of goals and organisational priorities. Some of these are: . Service Council: Reviews the quality of services delivered to customers across the policy lifecycle based on feedback captured through customer surveys such as Net Promoter System (NPS). It also ensures adherence on service measures mandated by regulatory norms around policyholder protection and prioritises focus areas that need attention so that suitable initiatives are taken for improvement. External learning and best practices are shared to further enhance the quality of services to customers. · Project Steering Committee: Provides strategic oversight, guidance and support to cross-functional projects that are aligned with business and strategic objectives that emanate from regulatory requirements or need for process changes, process gaps (audit/compliance) and feedback of customers/ distributors such as products or service offerings · Executive Risk Committee (ERC): Reviews Asset Liability Management (ALM) at regular intervals, maintains a group wide and aggregated view of the risk profile of the Company in addition to individual risk profiles, approves new products and modifications to existing products, approves Investment Specifications including those for derivatives, reviews the Board Risk policy including the risk appetite periodically and recommends any alterations to the Board Risk Management Committee (BRMC), and approves the underwriting and claims assessment limits. The ERC is further supported by the following internal committees. o Investment Risk Committee o Insurance Risk Committee o Operational Risk committee o Outsourcing committee o Information and Cyber Security Committee o Reputation Risk Management Committee . Executive Investment Committee (EIC): Reviews investment performance, compliance to the investments policy including regulatory and internal norms, investment decision referred as per investment policy, empanelment of new counterparties and brokers, credit reviews of the portfolio and recommend changes to the investment policy etc. The EIC is also responsible for implementation of Stewardship policy and define the operating guidelines for discharge of stewardship responsibilities. 52 | ICICI PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED



ANNEXURE III: SUPPORTIVE POLICIES FOR A MULTI-GENERATIONAL WORKFORCE AND WOMEN The Company offers various polices to enable a multi-generational workforce as illustrated in the image below. Flexibility Family Support Safety, Health & Wellness Learning While some of them have been covered under sections such as health, safety & well-being and learning & development, additional polices are mentioned below: Polices enabling health and well-being · Group term insurance cover and personal accident insurance cover, which was significantly enhanced across levels during FY2021 due to the need to protect families of employees . Employees have the option of additional health cover for parents and parents-in-law · Retirement benefits for employees including group health insurance, domiciliary medical expenses, vesting of outstanding stock options, transportation to home town for employee & family. · Employees & families are covered for hospitalisation through mediclaim cover and annual health check-up is also facilitated for eligible employees and their spouses Policies for employees' children · Education scholarship scheme for graduate and post-graduate programmes · A sports scholarship scheme for coaching and kit expenses of employees' children representing a sport at a district/state/ national/international level. · Helping employees who have children with special needs, to help improve their quality of life. This includes aid for specialised education, therapy, equipment and treatment for medical conditions leading to developmental delays, congenital conditions, learning disabilities, psychiatric conditions and mental health issues Supportive policies for women · Specific leave for women include Maternity Leave, Adoption Leave of 3 months and medical leave in case of miscarriage or medical termination of pregnancy, any illness arising out of pregnancy and for tubectomy operation · To ensure safety while on official travel, they are provided additional entitlements for outstation stay and travel ESG REPORT FY2022 | 53



ANNEXURE IV: GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL PROCESS A structured grievance redressal process has been institutionalised to ensure that all grievances are suitably investigated and action is taken as per due process. The below image illustrates the process by which employees can register their grievances, the role of the Employee Governance team, the classification of grievances, the process of enquiry, disciplinary action, appeal mechanism and reporting. Grievance Registration channels Grievance Classification Employee Grievance egov portal employeeassist@iciciprulife.com - HR Manager / Line hierarchy - womensafety@iciciprulife.com for-Sexual Harassment cases -whistleblower@iciciprulife.com for Whistle Blower cases Behaviour - Fraud - Other Code Violation - Process Sexual Harassment i Enquiry Process Enquiry Officer or Enquiry Committee constituted Show Cause notice issued to the Respondent Written deposition from the Respondent, Complainant & witnesses Review of evidence Preliminary Investigation Report Preliminary Investigation Grievance Classification Investigating team Behaviour HR Fraud Other Code Violation . Risk/WB Risk/WB Process Sexual Harassment- ICC Functional team Submitting Enquiry Report findings & conclusion Governance team to determine action basis disciplinary action matrix Ratification of the Disciplinary Action by Governance Council Decision of Governance Council communicated to employee If employee wishes to appeal Review by Appellate Authority Final decision of Appellate Authority Case closed on egov portal Employee accepts the decision 54 | ICICI PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED



DICICI PRUDENTIAL® LIFE INSURANCE A ICICI PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED Registered Office: 1089, Appasaheb Marathe Marg, Prabhadevi, Mumbai 400 025. Tel. No .: +91 22 039 1600 | www.iciciprulife.com

Table 1:
|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---:|
| About the ESG report                                                              | 01 |
| Performance Snapshot                                                              | 02 |
| ESG Risks and Opportunities                                                       | 03 |
| ICICI Prudential Life Insurance and the UN SDGs                                   | 04 |
| Human Capital: Creating the People Edge                                           | 09 |
| a. Enabling employee well-being                                                   | 09 |
| b. Enabling organisation productivity                                             | 12 |
| c. Building an engaged and agile workforce                                        | 16 |
| Responsible Investing                                                             | 20 |
| Data Privacy & Security: Making Digitalisation Safe                               | 23 |
| Access to Finance: Towards Financial Inclusion                                    | 25 |
| a. Offering products in a responsible way                                         | 25 |
| b. Empowering customers                                                           | 26 |
| c. Increasing insurance awareness                                                 | 27 |
| Meeting Challenges from Sustainability Risks                                      | 30 |
| Governance: Promoting Accountability, Transparency and Ethical Behaviour          | 32 |
| a. Governance structure                                                           | 32 |
| b. Compensation policy and practices                                              | 34 |
| C. Compliance framework                                                           | 35 |
| d. Risk management                                                                | 36 |
| e. Ethics and policies                                                            | 37 |
| Commitment to the Environment                                                     | 39 |
| a. Energy Efficiency Measures                                                     | 39 |
| b. Air Quality Improvement                                                        | 40 |
| c. Water Initiatives                                                              | 40 |
| d. Waste Management and Reduction                                                 | 41 |
| e. Waste Reduction                                                                | 41 |
| f. Wet Waste Reduction Initiatives                                                | 42 |
| g. E-waste Disposal                                                               | 42 |
| CSR: Contributing To Society                                                      | 43 |
| a. Promoting inclusive growth                                                     | 43 |
| b. CSR Initiatives                                                                | 46 |
| Annexures                                                                         | 51 |
| a. Annexure I: Certification architecture and Education assistance policy         | 51 |
| b. Annexure II: Cross-functional councils                                         | 52 |
| c. Annexure III: Supportive policies for a multi-generational workforce and women | 53 |
| d. Annexure IV: Grievance redressal process                                       | 54 |

Table 2:
|:-|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|  | Our business is to provide life insurance, enabling financial cushion for families through immediate financial protection for dependents. Given our business model, we have made disclosures around the following ESG focus areas. |
|  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |

Table 3:
|:-------------------------------------------------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------|
| Capacity building                                                  | Capability building                                          |
| · Lateral hiring · Campus hiring · Industry academia partnerships2 | · Upskilling and reskilling · Job rotation                   |
|                                                                    | · Certifications · Education Assistance Policy for Actuarial |

Table 4:
|:-|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|  | The Company, in the course of discharging its fiduciary responsibility towards our policyholders, is a significant institutional investor in the securities of various companies. We would like to ensure the |
|  | businesses we invest in, operate in a responsible manner.                                                                                                                                                     |

Table 5:
|:------------------------|:------------------|
| Asset Class (₹ billion) | At March 31, 2022 |
| Fixed income            | 1,265.31          |
| Equity                  | 1,139.61          |
| Total                   | 2,404.92          |

Table 6:
|:-|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
|  | As a financial services organisation, all our environment related initiatives are based on the ethos of responsible consumption and recycling wherever possible. Currently, we operate through 470 offices in India including one corporate office and two back offices. |

Table 7:
|:-------------------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------|:---------------------|
| · Flexible compensation                          | Support for children:                          | Health, safety & guidelines             | Education assistance |
| . Part-time & fixed term employment              | · education, sports scholarship, special needs | POSH                                    | Internal job posting |
| Leave: . Paternity, Extended                     | Voluntary Health cover for parents             | Life, Healthcare & Accident cover       |                      |
| maternity, Fertility Adoption · Addl sick leave, | Additional life cover                          | . Annual Health checkup - self & spouse |                      |
| · Sabbatical                                     |                                                |                                         |                      |
|                                                  | Post retirement                                | I . Travel safety                       |                      |
|                                                  | benefits                                       |                                         |                      |

