Extracted Text:
Sustainability report 2023 SIEMENS



Our Purpose We create technology to transform the everyday, for everyone We are connected to Siemens Healthineers (SHS) under the Siemens brand through shared values. Industry, Infrastructure, and Mobility Healthcare Siemens Siemens Healthineers 1 SCOPE OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT All indicators in the report include Siemens Healthineers (SHS), unless otherwise noted. For the sake of readability, the masculine form is used; it is representative of people of any gender. 1 Publicly listed subsidiary of Siemens; Siemens' share in Siemens Healthineers: 75%. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 2



Contents Contents 1 Siemens at a glance 7 1.1 Our DEGREE sustainability framework sets measurable ambitions 8 1.2 Company profile 10 1.3 Strategy 17 2 Our sustainability management 20 21 2.1 Materiality assessment 2.2 Sustainability governance and organization 23 2.3 Partnerships and collaborations for sustainability 26 2.4 Sustainability ratings reflect our performance 29 3 Governance 3.1 Compliance and Ethics 3.2 Human rights 40 3.3 Sustainable supply chain practices 44 3.4 Cybersecurity and data privacy 49 4 Environment Holistic environmental protection 55 4.1 Climate action 58 4.2 Conserving resources 4.3 Product stewardship 71 4.4 EU taxonomy 76 5 6 31 32 54 65 SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 3



Foreword Foreword Scaling sustainability impact In a tumultuous year of record-shattering heatwaves, wild- fires and floods, and despite rising energy prices, inflation, supply chain challenges, labor shortages, plus the impact of growing geopolitical tensions, we remain optimistic about technology as the answer to some of the world's biggest challenges. Our technology empowers our customers and partners to scale their sustainability impact faster across the backbone of our economies. As we approach a critical tipping point for our planet, the demand to accelerate the digital and sustainability transformations has never been greater. As a leading technology company, Siemens supports cus- tomers all over the world to become more competitive, resilient, and, above all, more sustainable. Our portfolio enables a positive impact on our planet and society at scale. Today, it is about more than just managing negative foot- prints; it is about a company's handprint and increasingly expanding businesses' net-positive impact on the world. That is why Siemens has integrated its sustainability strategy in our business activities, technology roadmap, investment decisions, own operations, and governance. We empower our customers to accelerate their sustainability goals along three impact areas: decarbonization & energy efficiency, resource efficiency & circularity, people centricity & societal impact. Our purpose - which has guided us for 176 years - is to create technology to transform the everyday, for everyone. This technology with purpose touches the lives of customers, partners, and consumers everywhere - improving the quality of life for billions of people worldwide. Technology with purpose is about leveraging digitalization for optimized resource usage and circularity readiness and accelerating the energy transition through renewable integration, energy efficiency, and electrification. It is about societal impact by designing and operating the most efficient train and e-mobility solutions within sustainable communities, built upon decarbonized building technologies. And it is about pioneering breakthroughs in healthcare to improve the lives of patients and their families. Combining the real and digital worlds Our strategy is to combine the real and digital worlds - harnessing the power of hardware and software, or OT and IT. More than 90% of Siemens AG's business enables positive sustainability outcomes for our customers. Worth highlight- ing is that our products sold to customers in fiscal 2023 will, over the course of their lifetime, avoid around 190 million metric tons of CO2 equivalent emissions - a significant increase in avoided emissions over the prior year. This represents more than the equivalent emissions of the Netherlands. In contrast, our own operations and supply chain accounted for around 12 million tons of greenhouse gas emissions. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 4



Foreword To help our customers and partners accelerate their transfor- mation, we recently introduced Siemens Xcelerator, an open digital business platform that makes digital transformation easier, faster, and more scalable for companies of all sizes. A key element of this platform is a growing ecosystem of partners. The sustainability impact we create is more powerful when all partners pool their strengths and work together toward a common goal. We are able to empower our customers to scale sustainability impact because we address challenges across the entire value chain - with deep domain know-how across many industries and across ecosystems of suppliers, partners, and customers. An excellent example of the power of ecosystems is how software can track and manage carbon footprints throughout lifecycles and along supply chains. SiGREEN, an emissions- tracking tool on our Siemens Xcelerator platform, enables companies to connect to all their suppliers, enabling data- driven decisions to reduce product carbon footprints and decarbonize at scale. Our DEGREE sustainability framework And we do not stop at the sustainability impact of our port- folio. We define our environmental, social, and governance (ESG) ambitions within our DEGREE sustainability framework - a 360-degree approach reflecting our core sustainability values. We look at sustainability from every angle with clear ambitions in six fields of action - Decarbonization, Ethics, Governance, Resource efficiency, Equity, and Employability. We have a clear position on responsible business conduct. And our DEGREE commitments are based on that. Ethical behavior, integrity and compliance are nonnegotiable. They go beyond strict adherence to rules by firmly placing respon- sible action sustainably at the core of our culture and busi- ness conduct. We are also focused on our own environmental footprint: In 2015, as one of the first global companies to do so, we committed to becoming carbon neutral by 2030. Today, we are on track, and we have already accelerated. We are proud to have reduced our CO2 footprint from our operations by 50% (without offsetting) since 2019 and are targeting 90% in 2030. We reduced our energy consumption by 9% since fiscal 2021, meanwhile 96% of our locations have imple- mented a water strategy. Applying our own technologies in our own operations is key to achieving these ambitions. In Nanjing, China, for example, we consolidated three production sites into one lean and green digital native factory, which was first built as a digital twin. This led to annual savings of 5,000,000 kWh of energy, 3,300 metric tons of CO2, and 6,000 m3 of water. At the same time, productivity went up by 20%. For Siemens, rethinking scalable products and services for a sustainable world should go hand in hand with savings, efficiency gains, and customer value. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 5



Foreword Our sustainability ambitions are supported by 320,000 colleagues who bring our purpose to life every day - in an increasingly inclusive environment in 190 countries around the world. Within Siemens AG, women now hold 31% of top management roles, having achieved our 2025 ambition for 30% two years ahead of time. Our people are at the heart of this company. In fiscal 2023 we invested €416 million in our active learning culture, ensuring sustainable employability in rapidly changing markets. We have also made progress in the number of hours our people spent learning across the three strategic focus areas of digitalization, sustainability, and leadership: On average, our people have accrued 23 digital learning hours per person per year. And they are on track to increase that to our ambition of 25 digital learning hours by 2025. Easier, faster, and at scale We create technology to transform the everyday, for everyone. By combining the real and digital worlds we can accelerate digital and sustainability transformations easier, faster, and at scale. Together, by scaling across ecosystems, we will continue to leverage the power of the digital world to have a positive sustainability impact in our precious real world. At Siemens, what's good for business and good for the planet and society go hand in hand. Roland Ful Dr. Roland Busch Judith Wiese SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 6



Pages 7 - 19 Siemens at a glance 11 SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION 13 CLIMATE ACTION 16 PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS 17 PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 7



1.1 Our DEGREE sustainability framework sets clear and measurable ambitions 1.1 Our DEGREE sustainability framework sets measurable ambitions D ecarbonization support the 1.5℃ target to fight global warming E thics foster a culture of trust, adhere to ethical standards, and handle data with care G overnance apply state-of-the-art systems for effective and responsible business conduct R esource efficiency achieve circularity and dematerialization E quity foster diversity, inclusion, and community development to create a sense of belonging E mployability enable our people to stay resilient and relevant in a permanently changing environment A strong framework for sustainability Sustainability is an integral part of our business. We are taking our ESG commitment to the next level with our DEGREE sustainability framework. The framework provides a 360-degree approach to our core sustainability values. By addressing the three aspects of ESG, we are building a better future that helps us to -> Stay within the planetary boundaries; -> Foster a culture of trust, empowerment, and growth; -> Support inclusive economic opportunities; -> Ensure that our people and businesses remain resilient and relevant for the future. The DEGREE sustainability framework is based on six fields of action that drive sustainability and are dynamic and contin- uously evolving. We have set clear priorities and ambitions for key ESG issues, which we are driving towards. The DEGREE sustainability framework applies to all Siemens- affiliated companies, excluding Siemens Healthineers (SHS). However, the sustainability approach at SHS follows the same basic principles, which reflects our expectations as its majority shareholder. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 8



1.1 Our DEGREE sustainability framework sets clear and measurable ambitions What are our ESG ambitions and priorities, and what progress did we make by end of fiscal 2023? 1 Assessment based on the Siemens internal ESG/sustainability index, which is based on customer satisfaction (Net Promoter Score), CO2 reduction, and digital learning hours. 2 Product specifications for the use of secondary plastics are in development. 3 Where legally possible and reasonable. 4 For employees with job profiles that make this possible and reasonable. 5 Digital learning hours per headcount on average. 6 LTIFR: Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (Siemens employees and temporary workers). MORE INFORMATION ON OUR AMBITIONS SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 9



1.2 Company profile 1.2 Company profile - A leading technology company with a global footprint - We create technology to transform the everyday, for everyone - Combining the real and digital worlds to benefit customers, planet, and society A leading technology company Siemens AG (Berlin and Munich) is a technology company focused on the fields of industry, infrastructure, mobility, and healthcare. Businesses and services Industrial businesses Digital Industries Smart Infrastructure Mobility By combining the real and digital worlds, Siemens helps its customers accelerate their own digital transformations (easier, faster and at scale) and achieve their sustainability targets. In addition to its core businesses (Digital Industries, Smart Infrastructure, and Siemens Mobility), Siemens is the majority shareholder of the exchange-listed company Siemens Healthineers AG (SHS), a leading global provider of medical technology. Siemens also holds a minority interest in the exchange-listed company Siemens Energy AG, which oper- ates in the field of energy transmission and generation. Siemens Healthineers1 Portfolio Companies Siemens Advanta Services Siemens Financial Services Siemens Real Estate T SIEMENS 1 Publicly listed subsidiary of Siemens; Siemens' share in Siemens Healthineers is 75%. SIEMENS COMPANY PRESENTATION Global Business Services SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 10



1.2 Company profile As a minority interest, Siemens Energy AG is not included in this Sustainability Report. Siemens is a technology company that operates in nearly all countries of the world. Ever since it was founded in 1847, Siemens has provided solutions to global challenges and stands for innovation, quality, and reliability. We are focused on leveraging the digital and sus- tainability transformation to drive sustainable growth. Industrial businesses Digital Industries The industrial world faces tremendous challenges. As our planet's resources are finite, we must decarbonize and do more with less. Digital Industries' offerings enable customers to optimize entire value chains from product design and development through production and post-sale services. With its advanced software solutions in particular, Digital Industries supports customers in their evolution towards the "Digital Enterprise," resulting in increased flexibility and efficiency of production processes and reduced time to market for new products. Smart Infrastructure Siemens Smart Infrastructure drives the decarbonization, resource-efficiency, and people-centricity of energy systems, buildings, and industries by connecting the real and digital worlds. This helps to improve the way people live and work by paving the way for the sustainability transition to an all-electric world with decarbonized power supply and effi- cient energy use. Siemens Mobility Siemens Mobility drives the decarbonization and resource- efficiency of transportation by connecting the real and digital worlds. Leveraging digital technologies enables lifecycle cost-optimized rail infrastructure and rolling stock, 100% system availability, maximized network capacity, and opti- mized customer experience and processes to support a mobility shift in our society. Siemens Healthineers Based on its foundation in in vitro diagnostics, image-guided therapy, in vivo diagnostics, and cancer care, Siemens Healthineers aims to fight the most dangerous non-commu- nicable diseases such as cancer, stroke, and coronary heart disease worldwide, enable efficient workflows in hospitals, and improve access to modern medical care. Today, more than three billion people around the world still lack access to adequate medical care. Depending on where you live, this lack of access is even true in developed countries. It is the privilege of Siemens Healthineers to provide innovative healthcare solutions and services which make healthcare affordable and accessible for underserved communities everywhere. Key figures In fiscal 2023, which ended on September 30, 2023, Siemens generated revenues of €78 billion and profits after tax of €8.5 billion. As of September 30, 2023, the company had approximately 320,000 employees worldwide. SIEMENS FINANCIAL REPORT FISCAL 2023, COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT, CHAPTER 7, OVERALL ASSESSMENT OF THE ECONOMIC POSITION Customers Putting customers first is a longstanding tradition at Siemens.1 When it comes to technology, sustainability, and innovation, our customers are always at the heart of what we think and do: everything begins with them. That is why we have made "customer impact" a strategic priority. We listen to understand our customers' needs as early as possible, and ideally, before our customers even become aware of them. To meet our customers' needs and the constantly changing demands of the markets, Siemens draws on a global sales force that takes its guidance from our regional companies. Key success factors include a strong customer focus, digital transformation, efficient processes, and collaboration with external partners. 1 We call any current or potential purchaser of Siemens products or services, no matter what the sales channel, a "customer." Some customers who are especially significant for Siemens are called "Key Customers". SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 11



1.2 Company profile Sustainable growth through digital transformation The COVID-19 pandemic has rapidly accelerated digitalization. New business models are emerging, and the importance of collaborative partnerships within ecosystems is increasing, especially in the context of sustainability challenges that cannot be solved unilaterally. We need to achieve more, and we need to do it sustainably while consuming fewer resources. We can do this by increasing our efficiency with the help of new technologies and by working in ecosystems with new business models to keep resources in circulation. Combining the real and digital worlds represents a major leap forward for Siemens and our customers as well as for industries, planet, and society. This will help shape a world where intelligent manufacturing, smart energy systems, smart buildings, and connected mobility can make our infra- structure more sustainable and our lives easier. Technology is driving sustainability, and the digital transfor- mation is also essential to accelerating sustainability. To speed up our customers' digital transformation and increase their value added, we have created Siemens Xcelerator, an open digital business platform. It is intended to accelerate digital transformation (easier, faster, and at scale). It com- prises three fundamental elements: 1. A curated modular portfolio of IoT-enabled hardware, software, and digital services from Siemens and certified partners based on standard application programming interfaces (APIs) 2. An ever-growing open ecosystem of partners 3. An evolving marketplace that enables customers, partners, and developers to explore, teach, and exchange digital solutions. The platform is constantly growing and provides many market- tested solutions that enable customers to easily begin their sustainability projects. These projects can include managing energy efficiency, integrating renewable energies, and saving resources. Siemens Xcelerator provides cybersecurity standards at every level to reduce risks for customers. Customer Impact At Siemens we rely on a mature Key Account Management approach to systematically structure and drive our Key Cus- tomer relationships company-wide. While all our customers are served by the general Sales organization, Key Customers are also managed through our Key Account Management approach. Over and above our basic sales approach, Siemens' primary principles for successful Key Account Management are a special understanding of our customers' technology and vertical markets along with the collaboration among all customer-facing parties - across functional, organizational, and regional boundaries ("go-to-market" approach). Our harmonized Key Account Management process enables us to act as one company and serve our customers in a global, sustainably coordinated approach. Key Account Management - A holistic approach to meeting customer needs Systematically measuring and improving customer satisfaction We use the Net Promoter Score (NPS) every year to measure customer satisfaction, and by extension, the quality of our partnerships. Management compensation at Siemens also includes a component that is based on customer satisfaction. This component incorporates long-term performance incen- tives using ESG criteria and is defined under Governance in our DEGREE sustainability framework. The assessment is based on the internal ESG/Sustainability index, which includes the Net Promoter Score2, among others.3 7 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE AND ORGANIZATION 2 Assessment based on the Siemens internal ESG/sustainability index, which is based on customer satisfaction (Net Promoter Score), CO2 reduction, and digital learning hours. 3 Siemens without SHS. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 12



1.2 Company profile Siemens' systematic evaluation draws from customer satisfac- Innovation strengthens Siemens and its tion surveys conducted annually worldwide. The score itself is based on a single question: "How likely is it that you would recommend Siemens to a colleague or business partner?" The survey pursues a holistic approach to customer relations because it follows up by implementing processes and systems designed to help foster long-term customer loyalty.4 Regardless of the score, we initiate a follow-up process after the survey, both internally and externally. When a score is low and considered critical, we take immediate action to identify key issues and determine what measures are needed to improve the relationship. Our customers' satisfaction is our top priority Despite the tense global situation (for example, with supply bottlenecks for materials and goods), our customers have recognized us for our customer support, reliable products, and a wide range of offerings. By consistently addressing their concerns, we have achieved a higher Net Promoter Score than the previous year. We are focusing on areas where we can make a difference. This means creating sustainable, long-term value for our customers, for the environment, for society, and for the people who work for Siemens. Research and Development At Siemens our purpose is to provide innovations that improve the quality of life and create added value for people all over the world. 4 In most cases, the survey questions are focused on the business unit level. However, the overall score can be aggregated up to the business level and to the level of the entire company. customers Our Research and Development (R&D) activities are geared towards developing innovative and sustainable solutions for Siemens' customers and businesses, while simultaneously strengthening our competitive positioning. This is also how we contribute to society. We focus on core technologies and innovation fields - Siemens Company Core Technologies - that play an essential role in the success of Siemens and its customers. The imple- mentation of our core technologies by our operating businesses and Technology - our central R&D department - ensures that research activities and business strategies are closely aligned, and that all businesses can profit equally and quickly from technological developments. For example: > Data Analytics & Al: Industrial facilities and infrastruc- tures are generating ever-growing amounts of data. Using methods of machine-based data analysis and artificial intelligence (AI), we help operators increase availability, improve operational quality, and reduce the stress on humans and the environment. At the same time, our quality statement on industrial-grade AI expresses its trustworthiness, reliability, and robustness according to the requirements suggested for the European Union's upcoming AI Act. -> Connectivity & Edge: The Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) is the result of the increasing networking of field devices. The IIoT enables field devices to be equipped with additional software-based functions during ongoing operations and makes it possible for the data generated by these devices to be evaluated in the field or in the cloud. -> Simulation & Digital Twin: Digital twins are the result of modeling and simulating systems and processes, including the development and manufacturing of products. Digital twins make it easier to accelerate the commissioning of manufacturing plants, speed up time-to-market, and improve the operation of infrastructures throughout their lifecycles. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 13



1.2 Company profile -> Software Systems & Processes: Complex, distributed industrial software systems that integrate software from different providers can only be developed using new methods and processes in software system development. -> Power Electronics: Power electronics for inverters have always played a major role in industry. As the amount of electricity generated by renewable energy sources grows, the stable operation of power grids will also depend on advances in power electronics. -> Additive Manufacturing & Materials (from fiscal 2024 on: Advanced Manufacturing & Circularity): Because of the increasing importance of circularity for our customers and society, we will sharpen our focus on elements like recycling. Additive manufacturing technologies continue to play an essential role by facilitating flexible production: for instance, component designs with optimized material utilization and an optimized performance-weight ratio. -> Future of Automation: We are shaping automation technologies with the goal of cutting engineering expenses, increasing flexibility - by integrating autonomous manufacturing machines, for example - and improving our customers' productivity while also reducing energy consumption. -> Cybersecurity & Trust: Industrial cybersecurity is a key technology for digitalization. The security of industrial facilities and the protection of data and intellectual prop- erty are important requirements for customers as well as governments and societies. -> Sustainable Energy & Infrastructure: Energy generation is moving away from the paradigm of large, centralized power plants towards a network of smaller independent generators. Sustainable infrastructure and energy sources are essential to this transformation. -> Integrated Circuits & Electronics: Integrated Circuits & Electronics bundles R&D activities in areas like optimized circuit design and resource-efficient manufacturing, the testing and operation of industrial electronics, and recy- cling electronics-based products. -> User Experience: Users expect intuitive operation in all our products. The purpose of the User Experience core technology is to find out how customers use Siemens products, what functions they need, what they expect, and what is unnecessary. Siemens Healthineers' focus also lies on other research prior- ities with the goal of shaping the healthcare of the future. These include medical technology, sensor systems, and robotics and any of the increasingly complex applications that can be automated. By using digitalization and AI respon- sibly, Siemens Healthineers is increasing the quality, efficiency, and effectiveness of care at all levels of the healthcare delivery system. Siemens supports research, founders, and students to help drive the development of innovative solutions. We work closely with scientists at more than 500 leading universities and research institutions, not just through bilateral research cooperation agreements but also in publicly funded collec- tive research projects. With the Siemens Research and Inno- vation Ecosystem program (RIE), we want to address today's challenges with technologies of the future in a collaborative approach. In fiscal 2023 we collaborated in 16 local Siemens Research and Innovation Ecosystems around the globe3. Siemens' global venture unit, Next47, provides capital to help enterprise-focused start-ups expand and scale. It nurtures next-generation business for Siemens by partnering with global start-ups at the early and expansion stages of their development. Next47 seeks to anticipate the impact that new technologies will have on our markets. This knowledge enables Siemens and its customers to grow and thrive in the age of digitalization. Continued high investment in R&D In fiscal 2023, we reported research and development expenses of €6.2 billion, compared with €5.6 billion in fiscal 2022. The resulting R&D intensity, defined as the ratio of R&D expenses to revenue, was rated at 8.0%. Additions to capitalized development expenses amounted to €0.3 billion. As of September 30, 2023, Siemens held approximately 45,000 granted patents worldwide in its continuing opera- tions. - COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 14 3 Siemens without SHS.



1.2 Company profile Our Siemens Company Core Technologies drive technology development to master key sustainability challenges Data Analytics & AI Trustworthy AI in critical IT/OT infrastructures to safeguard sustainability, transparency, safety, security, and privacy Connectivity & Edge Robust IoT wireless connections and edge solutions for efficient manage- ment of energy consumption in buildings and grids Future of Automation Cybersecurity & Trust Automation hard- ware based on Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition enables the reuse of waste- water in agriculture SiGREEN for a trust- worthy exchange of product carbon footprints in the value chain, with verifiable creden- tials for transparency and control Power Electronics Tools for optimizing energy efficiency, advanced lifecycle services, and circular economy designs for power electronic systems User Experience Serious gaming to increase awareness of the product carbon footprint Patent portfolio reflects sustainable innovation Siemens' sustainable innovation is reflected in the compa- ny's patent portfolio. Using the LexisNexis® PatentSight® patent information platform, we evaluate our sustainable innovations against the United Nations' 17 defined Sustain- able Development Goals (SDGs) and the corresponding 169 targets. 46.8% of the active patent families in Siemens' patent portfolio relate to at least one SDG, mainly in the categories of Good Health and Well-Being (SDG 3), Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure (SDG 9), Affordable and Clean Energy (SDG 7), and Climate Action (SDG 13). Simulation & Digital Twin Data-based digital building twin and knowledge graphs to optimize building operation over the lifecycle (e.g., Siemens headquarters) Sustainable Energy & Infrastructure Lifecycle Assessment and opti- mization of production, supply chain, logistics, and trans- portation for Environmental Product Declaration Integrated Circuits & -- O Electronics Reduce-reuse-recycle approaches through life- cycle management for electronics-based products Software Systems & Processes Siemens Water Apps (SIWA) for greater efficiency and security of the water supply Advanced Manufacturing & Circularity Tools and procedures for design- ing products that optimize re- source use, including AM designs and strategies for 4R (reuse, remanufacture, repair, recycle) SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 15



1.2 Company profile SDG-related Siemens IP portfolio by SDG category Absolute figures represent patent families. Multiple assignments of patents possible. SDG 15: Life on Land SDG 01: No Poverty SDG 14: Life below water SDG 02: Zero Hunger SDG 13: Climate Action SDG 03: Good Health and Well-Being SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and Production 188 27 288 1,434 30 Portfolio 956 Size 323 10 794 57 6,276 Education SDG 04: Quality 1,588 SDG 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities 5,207 SDG 05: Gender Equality SDG 09: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure SDG 07: Affordable and Clean Energy SDG 06: Clean Water and Sanitation SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 16



1.3 Strategy 1.3 Strategy - We combine the real and the digital worlds to scale sustainability impact - Siemens' business is focused on enabling customers to achieve positive sustainability impact along three customer value propositions: decarbonization & energy efficiency, resource efficiency & circularity, people centricity & societal impact - The DEGREE sustainability framework defines clear fields of action for our sustainability ambition Siemens is a leading technology company with a portfolio designed to drive the digital and sustainable transformation of industry, infrastructure, mobility, and healthcare. We firmly believe that technology is the answer to creating a sustainable future. As key pillars of our strategy, digitaliza- tion and sustainability help future-proof our business and that of our customers. Siemens offers technologies and solutions to advance growth as societies transition toward a more sustainable future. We enable our customers to accelerate the energy transition, create more resource-efficient factories, smarter buildings, and cleaner transportation, and advance health- care. By combining the real and the digital worlds, we empower our customers to be more competitive and more resilient while simultaneously reducing their environmental impact. Managing data across complex value chains has become an important prerequisite for accelerating this transformation. Siemens' industrial metaverse and digital twin technologies integrate data from physical factories and products across entire lifecycles to optimize production design, increase production efficiency, and reduce CO2e emissions and the consumption of energy, water, and raw materials. Our products, services, and solutions demonstrate how technology advances sustainability and is helping shape the world we want to live in. Global megatrends Complexity in the industrial world has never been greater than today. Several megatrends are driving us to rethink established ways of doing things: -> Environmental change and the associated climate change, along with extreme weather conditions like increasing flooding and drought, pose critical challenges. Current legislation alone is insufficient to effectively combat environmental change. We are also facing challenges related to resource efficiency and material extraction, water scarcity, and biodiversity loss. -> In times of crisis, glocalization can create a greater balance between the global and the local in our economy. For instance, by ensuring production of our products and solutions near our customers, we can strengthen our resilience to shocks while also reducing the environmental impact of our products. -> Increasing urbanization, especially in less-developed regions, is a significant megatrend. In this context, the demand for more sustainable and efficient products, technologies, and solutions - including passenger trans- portation and access to renewable energy - continues to grow as more and more people move to cities. -> As global population growth progresses at a slower pace, our societies are aging, and an increasing number of people need medical care. This demographic change is also contributing to a shortage of workers across industries. -> Lastly, digitalization continues to accelerate advancements in connectivity, the Internet of Things (IoT), automation, and AI technologies. Digitalization is being rapidly adopted by multiple industries in the public and private sectors. By optimizing processes, it can play a decisive role in reducing environmental impacts. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 17



1.3 Strategy Scaling sustainability impact These megatrends and their impacts are reshaping the needs of our customers and markets. To create a holistic picture of potential futures, we execute sustainability scenario analyses that enable us to map impacts and risks, identify opportunities, and find new ways to create value through pathways by 2030 and 2040. Strategic insights are derived from scientific frameworks like the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's (IPCC) Representative Concentration Pathways (RCPs) and Shared Socioeconomic Pathways (SSPs) as well as market trends and expert knowledge. The sustainability scenarios illustrate different possible development pathways for the global economy and Siemens' operating environment across the focus topics climate, circularity, biodiversity, and society that take into account both an organized 1.5℃ and a disorganized 3ºC pathway. These scenarios guide the devel- opment of our sustainability strategy. To further increase our positive impact, we believe that working in ecosystems is the best way to jointly create seam- less solutions for our customers and their specific challenges. This approach increases our own sustainable offerings and solutions and facilitates our customers' sustainability trans- formation. Our commitment to sustainability covers the entire value chain. Based on our strategic priority to produce purpose-driven technology, we strive to create a positive long-term impact for our customers with our products across our operations and through connected ecosystems. Supporting our customers in their sustainability transformation Siemens' business is focused on enabling customers to achieve a positive sustainability impact along the following value propositions: Decarbonization & energy efficiency We support our customers with their efforts to decarbonize their infrastructure and operations, drive energy-efficiency, and future-proof entire industries. We do this by offering products, systems, solutions, and services that are based on our strategic focus on digitalization, electrification, and automation. For example, our energy-efficient products and solutions support the transition from fossil fuels to renew- able energy sources, and our electrification solutions enable renewable grid integration and the electrification of heat and hydrogen. Across industries, we offer energy optimiza- tion and carbon footprint management throughout our products' lifecycles and supply chains. In buildings, we offer energy efficiency and decarbonization solutions, such as smart buildings and smart energy management for a reduced carbon footprint. Our rail systems offer low-carbon mobility and increased energy efficiency. Resource efficiency & circularity Through their use of our digital technology, our customers can achieve resource efficiency and profitability. For instance, we harness digitalization to reduce the require- ments of physical assets and resources. We combine the real and the digital worlds with our digital twin technology, a virtual representation of a physical product or process that is used to simulate, predict, and optimize its physical counter- part. Digital twins enable users to do more with fewer resources and make current and future environmental foot- prints transparent. Our building solutions also contribute to optimized space utilization and ultimately increase resource efficiency. Our mobility solutions focus on enhanced network capacity and extended lifecycles. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 18



1.3 Strategy People centricity & societal impact We enable our partners and customers to improve people's lives today and transform the backbone of societies for a better tomorrow. For instance, our technologies support the well-being, productivity, safety, and security of building tenants and operators. Similarly, in the field of mobility, passengers and operators benefit from greater safety and convenience thanks to our technologies. They also promote the socioeconomic development of communities by enabling access to basic goods, resilient electric power, affordable real estate, food and water, healthcare, education, and public transportation. DEGREE: High ambitions for sustainability Sustainability is integral to our business and influences everything we do. The DEGREE sustainability framework defines our comprehensive approach to sustainability. Across six fields of action, the framework defines clear priorities for us in key sustainability areas that we drive in our own oper- ations and in collaboration with our partners, suppliers, and customers. We continuously develop these priorities and ambitions while fully integrating the expectations of all our stakeholders. The fields of action are defined along the dimensions of Environment, Social, and Governance: Environment: Decarbonization, Resource efficiency As part of DEGREE, we have set high ambitions to signifi- cantly reduce CO2e emissions in Siemens' operations and upstream supply chain. Our approach to resource efficiency accelerates recycling and promotes a more circular business. Our software and simulations reduce the use of substances of concern and other resource usage and introduce recycled materials as early as the design and simulation phases of our products, factories, and solutions. In addition, we promote the decoupling of natural resource consumption from eco- nomic growth by increasing the amount of secondary materials that we purchase. Social: Equity, Employability Equal treatment and respect are the core of our corporate values. Our goal is to position Siemens as the inclusive employer of choice in all our relevant talent markets. We foster diversity, equity, inclusion, and community develop- ment in order to create a sense of belonging and a healthy and safe environment where all our people can give their best. At Siemens, we invest in the education, development, and individual growth of our people. We maintain a strong focus on digital learning, employee assistance programs, and occupational health and safety. Governance: Ethics, Governance At Siemens, we believe that the way we do business is as important as our business success. Our values and ethical principles are embedded in our Business Conduct Guidelines, which are mandatory throughout the company. In addition to embedding these principles in our own management systems, we extend them to our suppliers who are required to follow a comprehensive Code of Conduct. Beyond that, we have made sustainability criteria an integral part of our long-term variable compensation programs1 for both the Managing Board and our senior management.2 The DEGREE sustainability framework applies to Siemens AG apart from Siemens Healthineers (SHS), which is an indepen- dent stock-listed company. In its sustainability concept, SHS pursues the same values as Siemens AG, because they repre- sent our expectations as the majority shareholder. SHS's own sustainability approach is described in a dedicated report. 7 OUR DEGREE SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK 1 Assessment based on the Siemens internal ESG/sustainability index, which is based on customer satisfaction (Net Promoter Score), CO2 reduction, and digital learning hours. 2 Siemens without SHS. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 19



Pages 20 - 30 Our sustainability management SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 20



2.1 Materiality assessment 2.1 Materiality assessment SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 21



2.1 Materiality assessment Result of the materiality assessment We identified 15 material sustainability topics of the greatest relevance to Siemens from both perspectives. "Waste and hazardous substance management" and "Employee develop- ment" were determined in fiscal 2023 to be two additional material topics. The two topics "Responsible governance" and "Innovation and business model" were merged into one combined topic, "Innovation and business model." The alignment of our material sustainability topics with the GRI framework and the SDGs can be found here: 7 ANNEX GRI INDEX, 7 ANNEX SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Siemens' material sustainability topics are clearly linked to the United Nations' Sustainability Development Goals (SDGs). They also serve as the basis for our considerations related to the DEGREE sustainability framework as well as our overall portfolio strategy and customer considerations. 7 STRATEGY 1 Top 2 material sustainability topics. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 22



2.2 Sustainability governance and organization 2.2 Sustainability governance and organization - Responsibility for sustainability at Siemens lies with the Managing Board and Chief Sustainability Officer, supported by the Siemens Sustainability Board - The Sustainability Executive Committee is our guidance body for Siemens' sustainability business with a focus on portfolios, market segments, and go-to-market topics - ESG criteria are included in the compensation system for members of the Managing Board and senior managers At Siemens, sustainability is rooted in all that we do, includ- ing our business purpose and strategy, corporate culture, processes, and guidelines. The management of sustainability matters is embedded across our Siemens businesses, Service and Governance units, and countries. Sustainability has also been an integral component of management compensation since fiscal 2020. Put simply, we strive to make sustainability everyone's responsibility at Siemens. Foundation: Corporate governance We believe that compliance with recognized principles of corporate governance is the cornerstone of sustainability- based corporate management. Siemens AG is governed by German corporate law, under which it has a two-tier board structure consisting of a Managing Board and a Supervisory Board. As the top management body, the Managing Board is responsible for serving the company's best interests and for achieving sustainable growth in company value. The Managing Board members are responsible for the entire management of the company and decide on key issues of business policy and corporate strategy. The Supervisory Board oversees and advises the Managing Board in its management of the company's business. The Supervisory Board meets regularly to discuss business devel- opment, planning, strategy, and the implementation of that strategy. More detailed information on the structure and responsibilities of the Managing Board and Supervisory Board can be found in the SIEMENS FINANCIAL REPORT FOR FISCAL 2023, COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT, CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Clear organizational structure and responsibilities In 2023, we significantly strengthened our sustainability organization throughout the company by introducing the Sustainability Executive Committee (EC SUS) and Heads of Sustainability in key businesses and business units, and we increased the responsibility of the Global Head of Sustain- ability (Global Head of SUS) and the Siemens Sustainability department. The Managing Board addresses sustainability-related risks and opportunities of strategic and company-wide impor- tance and adopts appropriate measures. The Managing Board also approves any changes to the DEGREE sustainability framework. The Siemens Sustainability Board (SSB) monitors and resolves Siemens' sustainability topics, including tracking the progress of our DEGREE ambition, providing input and guidance on sustainability reporting, and acting as a catalyst for regional sustainability initiatives with the potential to scale across Siemens. The SSB is composed of representa- tives from Siemens' businesses, countries, and Service and Governance units. The SSB meets four times per year or more frequently as needed. The SSB provides updates and recommendations to the Managing Board. The Sustainability Executive Committee (EC SUS) acts as guidance body for Siemens sustainability business - the Siemens portfolio that enables positive sustainability impact SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 23



2.2 Sustainability governance and organization by addressing and financing (i) decarbonization and energy efficiency, (ii) resource efficiency and circularity as well as (iii) people centricity and social impact - with a focus on portfolio market segments and go-to-market topics, and it meets on an ad hoc basis to discuss relevant subjects. Chaired by Siemens' CEO, the EC SUS includes Siemens' Chief Sustainability Officer, the CEOs of key businesses, Chief Strategy Officer, General Counsel, and Global Head of SUS. The Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO) oversees Siemens' sustainability topics. The CSO is a member of the Siemens Managing Board, chairs the Siemens Sustainability Board (SSB), and is a member of the Sustainability Executive Com- mittee (EC SUS). The CSO is also responsible for the Siemens Sustainability department. The Global Head of Sustainability (Global Head of SUS) leads the Siemens Sustainability department. In this capacity, the Global Head of SUS reports to the CSO on all Siemens sus- tainability topics excluding sustainability business and related strategy topics. For the latter topics, the Global Head of SUS reports to Siemens' CEO. The Global Head of SUS is a regular member of the SSB. The Global Head of SUS regularly informs the Supervisory Board on sustainability matters. The Siemens Sustainability department is responsible for developing our DEGREE sustainability framework in coordi- nation with the SSB, businesses, Service and Governance units, and countries and controlling the DEGREE target achievements. Responsibility for sustainability reporting and the Net Zero Operations Program1 also lies with the Sustain- ability department. It also governs the purchase of carbon offsets and the Sustainability Risk Due Diligence Process2. The Sustainability department also supports sustainability initiatives with scalability across Siemens. This includes developing the processes, training, and tools needed to address overarching sustainability topics for our countries, businesses, and Service and Governance units in collaboration with other Siemens organizations. Finally, the Sustainability department is responsible for developing strategic consider- 1 Siemens has established the Net Zero Operations Program, which is comprised of a series of greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reduction initiatives targeting real estate, production, our vehicle fleet, and related topics to address our commitment to GHG reduction under the DEGREE ambition "Net Zero Operations by 2030." For more details, see chapter 4.1 Climate action. 2 Siemens has established the Sustainability Risk Due Diligence Process to ensure that environmental, social, and associated human rights and reputational risks (Sustainability Risks) are appropriately assessed and mitigated. The Sustainability department, as the governance owner, has established minimum company-wide standards for the Sustainability Risk Due Diligence Process in our customer-related business that are applicable to the businesses and SFS. ations for the Siemens sustainability business in alignment with the Managing Board, EC SUS, and the CEOs. CEOs are ultimately responsible for all sustainability topics in their area of responsibility. This includes responsibility for the sustainability business, implementation of DEGREE, sustainability reporting, the Sustainability Risk Due Diligence Process, and other related responsibilities. The CEOs of Digital Industries, Smart Infrastructure, Siemens Mobility, and Siemens Financial Services (SFS) are supported by their respective Heads of SUS to achieve their sustainability mandates. The Heads of SUS also assist the Global Head of SUS with their responsibilities in the Sustainability depart- ment, as they pertain to their businesses. Heads of SUS have a governance reporting line to the Global Head of SUS in addition to their reporting line to their respective CEOs. The Heads of SUS are appointed by the respective CEOs, in align- ment with the Global Head of SUS. In addition, the CEOs of the business units in Digital Indus- tries, Smart Infrastructure, Siemens Mobility, and SFS each appoint Sustainability Managers who have a governance reporting line to the Heads of SUS and to their reporting line to their respective CEOs. Lead Country SUS Managers support their respective Lead Country CEOs and their assigned countries. They also lead Siemens' sustainability topics within the scope of responsi- bility of the Lead Country management. Our Service and Governance units are responsible for the ongoing development of sustainability-related topics within their own mandate in line with the DEGREE sustainability framework and regulatory and organizational requirements. Lastly, Sustainability Risk Due Diligence Subject Matter Experts are appointed by and support Digital Industries, Smart Infrastructure, Siemens Mobility, and SFS to responsibly conduct the Sustainability Risk Due Diligence Process. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 24



2.2 Sustainability governance and organization CEOs in businesses and lead countries are responsible for anchoring sustainability in their organizations Overview of roles and responsibilities Supervisory Board Managing Board incl. Chief Sustainability Officer > Sustainability Executive Committee > Siemens Sustainability Board Sustainability Organization incl. Global Head of Sustainability Business and SFS Service & Governance units Countries Sustainability reflected in management compensation The current compensation system for the members of the Managing Board of Siemens AG has been in place since fiscal 2020. It incorporates long-term performance incentives based on ESG criteria and is defined under the field of action Governance in our DEGREE sustainability framework. We assess the Managing Board's performance against Siemens' internal ESG/Sustainability index. Targets include CO2e emissions, digital learning hours, and the Net Promoter Score (NPS) for measuring customer satisfaction. Additional sustainability matters are also defined as individual targets for short-term variable compensation (bonuses). - SIEMENS FINANCIAL REPORT FOR FISCAL 2023, COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT, COMPENSATION REPORT 2023 G overnance Progress on DEGREE ambition #5: Long-term incentives based on ESG criteria Siemens grants long-term variable compensation in the form of Stock Awards. Long-term variable compensation represents at least 30% and at most 42% of total target compensation. Since fiscal 2020, allocated Stock Awards depend on a comparison of total shareholder return (TSR) with an international sector index (the MSCI World Industrials Index) and on an internal ESG/Sustainability index, weighted at 20%, with three equally weighted indicators. The ESG indicators reflect relevant strategic and socio-political topics. For the Stock Awards Tranche 2023, which was awarded in November 2022, these indicators include CO2e emissions, digital learning hours, and the Net Promoter Score (NPS) for measuring customer satisfaction. These criteria are applicable to Managing Board members of Siemens AG and all senior managers globally who are eligible for Stock Awards. Progress ESG criteria anchored SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 25 Siemens without SHS



2.3 Partnerships and collaborations for sustainability 2.3 Partnerships and collaborations for sustainability - Close collaborations with our stakeholders - Partnerships are key to long-term sustainable business success - Siemens is an active member of numerous business associations and organizations Siemens operates in nearly every country in the world. We work with our customers to find innovative solutions to some of the world's most pressing issues. We believe that close collaboration with our stakeholders enables us to make serious progress on complex sustainability challenges. We maintain a consistent dialog with all our stakeholders, including customers, investors, suppliers, our people, communities, policymakers, media, non-governmental organizations, business organizations, and academia. In addition, our DEGREE sustainability framework is also based on a 360-degree stakeholder approach. In dialog with politics and society Our Managing Board, CEOs, and governance departments in our business units oversee stakeholder engagement. The overall responsibility for Siemens' dialog with policymakers lies with our Managing Board, which has given the Govern- ment Affairs department a mandate for company-wide coordination tasks and the corresponding governance responsibilities. Within the business units, the unit's CEO is responsible for a coordinated dialog with the policymakers. The way that regulations and legislation are shaped has in many cases impacted Siemens and our products and solu- tions. Therefore, we believe that maintaining an ongoing dialog with political decision-makers is crucial for our company's success and for our commitment to sustainability. We prioritize our activities based on our business strategies and innovation fields. As a result, our advocacy activities focus on but are not limited to the following topics: cyber- security, digitalization, climate protection, energy, R&D, non-financial reporting legislation, trade policy, and con- nected and automated mobility for rail and road. Our political involvement is guided by strong principles: -> We are politically neutral and take a zero-tolerance approach to corruption, violations of fair competition principles, and other breaches of applicable law and internal regulations. -> Siemens does not make political donations or contributions to politicians, political parties, or political organizations. -> Any contributions that support purely political purposes or the representation of political interests - for example, election events for political campaigns - are prohibited by our internal guidelines. Engagement in associations and organizations Siemens is a member of numerous business associations and other organizations, some of which advocate for their mem- bers' interests in the political arena. Selected examples of the most important memberships are: -> The International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) -> The German Mechanical Engineering Industry Association (VDMA) -> The German Electrical and Electronic Manufacturers' Association (ZVEI) -> The European Round Table for Industry (ERT) -> The U.S. Chamber of Commerce -> The European Chamber of Commerce in China (EUCCC) More information on political activities at Siemens can be found on our [ GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS website. We have joined forces with leading companies from around the world to establish the Charter of Trust, which aims to make the digital world safer and more secure. WWW.CHARTEROFTRUST.COM SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 26



2.3 Partnerships and collaborations for sustainability We also support the goal of achieving a carbon-neutral Europe by 2050, which was announced as part of the Euro- pean Green Deal. We will achieve this through a variety of commitments, including our active memberships in the EUROPEAN ALLIANCE TO SAVE ENERGY and the EUROPEAN GREEN DIGITAL COALITION. We work closely with the Organization for Economic Cooper- ation and Development (OECD), the United Nations (UN), the European Union, and the World Economic Forum (WEF). Siemens participates in a number of WEF initiatives, including the WEF CEO Climate Leaders Coalition. We also cooperate with the United Nations, for instance, as part of our commit- ment to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). On several environmental issues, we support the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the UN Climate Change Conferences, and we are actively involved in the CEO Water Mandate. We have also joined the World Bank's Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC), and we advocate for the global introduction of carbon pricing. We are likewise committed to the UNGC Women's Empowerment Principles and have signed the Diversity Charter, an initiative by the German government. For over ten years we have supported One Young World (OYW), a non-profit organization that supports young busi- ness leaders around the globe to build a better world with more responsible, more effective leadership. At the 2023 OYW Summit in Belfast, we championed this event by send- ing more than 45 of our Siemens colleagues to participate. Siemens collaborates with numerous partners globally across the topics of decarbonization and energy efficiency, resource efficiency and circularity, and people-centricity and societal impact. Our selected strategic sustainability partner- ships are listed below. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 27



2.3 Partnerships and collaborations for sustainability SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 28



2.4 Sustainability ratings reflect our performance 2.4 Sustainability ratings reflect our performance - Our engagement is recognized in a number of ratings - These ratings help us continuously improve our sustainability performance - They also strengthen the comparability and trans- parency of our sustainability performance for our customers and investors Our approach to ESG ratings We are proud that our commitment to sustainability and our efforts are reflected in our public assessments and ratings. Siemens actively participates in several sustainability ratings to provide our capital markets and our customers with robust information and support the comparability and transparency of our sustainability performance. Ratings also give us important insights that assist in our continuous improvement. We focus primarily on the six ratings summarized below. Siemens continues to achieve strong results in external sustainability ratings in fiscal 2023, confirming our leading position in the industry. ESG ratings in fiscal 2023 MSCI The MSCI ESG Rating scores global companies on a scale of AAA (leader) to CCC (laggard) based on exposure to industry- specific ESG risks and the ability to manage those risks rela- tive to peers. In fiscal 2023, Siemens was given an overall MSCI ESG rating score of AA. In addition, Siemens is a member of the MSCI World ESG Index. ISS ESG The ISS ESG Corporate Rating evaluates companies' ESG- related risks, opportunities, and impacts along the corporate value chain. Companies are rated from D- to A+ on their sustainability performance based on an absolute best-in- class standard. For ISS ESG, Siemens again received prime status and a B rating, the best rating in our industry (Industrial Conglomerates). Prime status recognizes companies for being one of the leaders in their respective industry. Sustainalytics Sustainalytics' ESG Risk Ratings measure a company's expo- sure to industry-specific material ESG risks and how well a company is managing those risks. In 2023, we were once again rated as one of the leading companies in our industry (Industrial Conglomerates) with a risk rating of 28.4 points (Medium Risk). S&P Global Corporate Sustainability Assessment (CSA)/ Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) The S&P Global CSA is an annual evaluation of companies' sustainability practices. The CSA focuses on sustainability criteria that are both industry-specific and financially material. In fiscal 2023, Siemens again ranks second among our industry peers (Industrial Conglomerates) with a score of 81/100. Siemens has been listed in the Dow Jones Sustain- ability World Index (DJSI World) for over 20 years. EcoVadis EcoVadis provides supplier sustainability ratings for global supply chains. Siemens received 77 points on its scorecard in 2023, placing it among the top 1% of all companies assessed by EcoVadis in our industry. Thanks to this rating, Siemens is being awarded the EcoVadis Gold medal. CDP CDP is a not-for-profit charity that runs a global disclosure system that helps investors, companies, cities, states, and regions manage their environmental impacts. In the most recent CDP Climate Change Rating, Siemens' climate efforts continue to be recognized with the rating score A-, which maintains its position at the Leadership Level of the CDP rating. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 29



2.4 Sustainability ratings reflect our performance Siemens has also satisfied the requirements to be included in several additional ESG stock market indices Additional ESG indices FTSE4Good Included in the FTSE4Good Index Series EURONEXT vigedeiris Included in the Euronext Vigeo Euro 120 Index SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 30



Pages 31 - 53 Governance Responsible Business Practices Ethics Governance Foster a culture of trust, adhere to ethical standards, and handle data with care Apply state-of-the-art systems for effective and responsible business conduct Our key ambitions1 -> Striving to train 100% of our people on Siemens' Business Conduct Guidelines every three years Additional highlights: -> Zero-tolerance approach to breaches of applicable laws and our own internal guidelines -> A global, risk-based compliance system -> Aiming for a leading role in cybersecurity Our key ambitions1 -> ESG-secured supply chain based on supplier commitment to the Supplier Code of Conduct -> Long-term incentives based on ESG criteria2 Additional highlights -> Focus on human rights within supply chain: climate protection, occupational safety, and responsible sourcing of minerals -> Comprehensive environmental and social due diligence in customer business (ESG Radar) 1 Siemens without SHS. 2 Assessment based on the Siemens internal ESG/sustainability index, which is based on customer satisfaction (Net Promoter Score), CO2 reduction, and digital learning hours. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 31



3.1 Compliance and ethics 3.1 Compliance and ethics - Zero-tolerance approach to breaches of applicable laws and our internal guidelines - A global, risk-based compliance system - Ethics and integrity are the basis for sustainable business practices Management approach Operating with integrity and in compliance with laws and regulation is fundamental to stakeholder trust and our com- pany's continued success. Siemens and its roughly 320,000 employees operate in multiple countries around the world. Our customers in both the private and public sectors serve a vast array of industries. Our global business operations are governed by numerous national legal systems and take place in a variety of political, social, and cultural settings that are constantly changing. Therefore, Siemens' business and compliance environment is correspondingly complex. The way that Siemens and our partners do business impacts the markets and societies where we operate. Unethical and unlawful conduct like corruption, cartel arrangements, and money laundering can distort competition, hinder economic development, and threaten human rights and democracy. As a global player, Siemens is responsible for setting an example in all its operations and in collaboration with all its stake- holders. By building alliances against corruption and pro- moting fair competition together with stakeholders from politics, business, and society, Siemens can through Collec- tive Action help establish the conditions for fair competition and thereby promote innovation. Under certain circumstances, Siemens can be held liable for the illegal activities of third parties: for example, business partners acting as suppliers, intermediaries, resellers, and consortium partners. Transactions conducted by business partners can be misused to gain undue advantages for the business partner or for Siemens. Our Compliance governance and policies The Siemens Compliance organization oversees our compli- ance system and is chaired by our Chief Compliance Officer, who is responsible for all legal and operational aspects of compliance. The Compliance organization is part of Siemens global Legal and Compliance department. It is led by the General Counsel, who reports directly to our President and CEO. Siemens Chief Compliance Officer reports directly to Siemens' CEO on functional matters, in addition to reporting to the Managing Board and the Siemens AG Supervisory Board on a quarterly and ad-hoc basis. Compliance Officers in the business ensure that our Compli- ance system is implemented worldwide. They work closely with employees and managers, who assume personal responsibility for compliance in their respective business units. We believe that it is necessary for the entire management team to act on our commitment to compliance and ensure that all business decisions and transactions that fall within their area of responsibility comply with both the relevant legal requirements and our own values and company guide- lines. At Siemens, we take a zero-tolerance approach to corruption and other breaches of applicable laws and of our Business Conduct Guidelines (BCGs). Our BCGs contain the behavioral principles and rules that guide our conduct, both within Siemens and in our stake- holder relationships. They also serve as an expression of our values and lay the foundation for detailed internal regula- tions. The BCGs are binding for all Siemens employees around the world. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 32



3.1 Compliance and ethics We also believe that acting on the basis of our Ethical Princi- ples allows us to focus even more on responsible business practices. We aspire to support the sustainable development of Siemens and the societies where we operate by adhering to responsible business practices. Worldwide commitment to fighting corruption In collaboration with other international and national orga- nizations, we are committed to fighting corruption and promoting fair competition in our markets and beyond. This approach is also reflected in our Collective Action activities, which includes our commitment to: -> The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) -> The World Economic Forum and its Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) -> The United Nations Convention Against Corruption and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Develop- ment (OECD)'s Anti-Bribery Convention -> The implementation of these conventions as part of Business 20 (B20) The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, and other key guidelines are embedded in our BCGs and provide a founda- tion and direction for all our activities. - BUSINESS CONDUCT GUIDELINES "We help our customers and partners around the world drive their digital and sustainable transformation. Without excuses or exceptions, we always act ethically, legally, and with the highest integrity." CEO Roland Busch The Siemens compliance system The goal of compliance at Siemens is to ensure that our worldwide business practices follow the applicable laws and comply with the BCGs. Our Compliance organization covers the following activity fields: -> Anti-corruption -> Anti-money laundering -> Anti-trust -> Data privacy -> Human rights -> Export control 7 HUMAN RIGHTS 7 CYBERSECURITY AND DATA PRIVACY To ensure compliance throughout the company, the Siemens comprehensive compliance system is based on the three pillars of prevention, detection, and response. Preventive measures include compliance risk management, preparing topic-specific guidelines and procedures, incorpo- rating compliance requirements into business processes, our Collective Action activities, and providing comprehensive training and advice to our people. In addition, protected channels for reporting compliance violations like the "Tell Us" whistle-blower system, the Ombudsperson, and professional and fair investigations are indispensable for identifying and resolving matters of indi- vidual misconduct. Our reporting channels also allow our people to submit reports anonymously. We believe that transparent communication and clear conse- quences help reduce and resolve incidents of individual misconduct. Our internal audit department also continuously performs compliance controls and audits to ensure that our compliance system is put into action and meets our world- wide requirements. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 33



3.1 Compliance and ethics The Siemens compliance system Prevent Management responsibility Respond Detect Activity fields Anti-Corruption Anti-trust Anti-Money Laundering Ethics management at Siemens In our business activities, we are committed to going beyond laws and regulations. Our BCGs define how we interpret our responsibility, what is expected of all employees, and how we act as a company. Our ethical principles have been integrated in the updated version of our BCGs. Responsible business conduct with all stakeholders and consistent consideration of Ethical Principles are expected in our decisions and are becoming increasingly important in view of the many changes and challenges in the world. Accordingly, we firmly anchored them in our BCGs: -> We are honest and truthful in our dealings -> We respect the dignity, privacy, and inherent rights of individuals -> We protect the health, occupational safety, and personal security of our people -> We act in line with our responsibility for the environment -> We engage with reputable and law-abiding partners -> We explore ethical concerns Export Control Data Privacy Human Rights We are committed to fulfilling these requirements in all our actions and decisions. In the complex environment of the global economy, "doing the right thing" is not always easy. Our new Siemens BCG training helps us to better assess situations in our work environment and make the right decisions. We believe that by acting responsibly beyond laws and regulations, we can continue achieving Siemens' success in collaboration with our business partners. Ethical standards for artificial intelligence Siemens prioritizes ethical standards and responsible busi- ness conduct in the digital world; specifically, by protecting data, mitigating biases, supporting data sovereignty, and ensuring trustworthy and responsible AI. We implement safeguards for transparency, accountability, technical robustness, security, and safety while promoting fairness and accessibility. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 34



3.1 Compliance and ethics Our commitment to ethical standards is demonstrated by integrating AI ethics into all our business processes, products, and solutions. This includes: -> Applying generally accepted and trustworthy Al frameworks to AI tools in anticipation of the upcoming AI regulation in the EU. -> Raising awareness and providing guidance to employees and stakeholders on ethical implications in AI decision- making. Collaboration with business partners Each Siemens department is responsible for its own business partners. They must be carefully selected by the responsible operational department and must undergo a risk-based compliance due diligence process. Business partners have to be adequately monitored for the duration of the business relationship. This means that we regularly assess the need for the continued relationship and provision of services, taking into account remuneration and other relevant circum- stances. We have established mandatory processes and the associ- ated tools for this purpose that are continuously refined to cover any risks that may arise. Decisions about engaging a business partner are transparent and risk-oriented. They are also based on the most recent compliance due diligence procedures. Appropriate remediation measures are initiated depending on the risk classification of the business relationship and the risks identified. Both business partners and suppliers are required to sign a code of conduct. In addition, depending on their risk classi- fication, audits can be conducted on the business partners' premises by the Siemens audit function or external service providers. 7 SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTICES To support the compliance experts on business partner topics, Siemens established the Business Partners Network. This network operates in different workstreams, some of which are connected with specific projects and others that are related to specific questions on the subject of collaboration with business partners. Preventing money laundering and terrorism financing Siemens strives to only maintain business relationships with reputable customers, suppliers, partners, and companies whose business activities comply with legal requirements and whose financial resources are of legitimate origin. We use a risk-based approach to verify the identity and economic background of customers, suppliers, business partners, and other third parties and the origin of payments to ensure they come from legitimate sources. When necessary, Siemens reports suspicious activities to law enforcement authorities. Handling of compliance cases At Siemens, compliance cases are handled in accordance with a clearly structured process that includes key steps such as reporting channels, internal investigations, and responses to identified violations (see the diagram below). Company-wide process for handling compliance cases (simplified presentation) Compliance investigation Allegation received Assessment carried out by examining or evaluating the allegation before mandating an investigation Mandating Research and planning Investigation Preparation of the investigation report Disciplinary measures and remediation SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 35



3.1 Compliance and ethics Siemens offers a range of reporting channels to enable all employees and outside third parties to flag potential compli- ance violations to the company. For instance, complaints can be reported by way of the protected whistle-blower system "Tell Us" or to the independent Siemens Ombudsperson. Reports received through these channels are forwarded to our Compliance organization. Complaints can also be reported directly to the Compliance Officers in our business units or to the senior management. Whistle-blowers at Siemens are protected by national laws and also by internal company regulations that prohibit the punishment or other detrimental treatment of anyone who reports a suspicious activity in good faith. Every complaint is taken seriously. If the allegations prove to be sufficiently plausible, the Compliance organization deter- mines whether there is sufficient information to justify an internal investigation. Indications about other matters are forwarded to the affected Siemens department or business unit for further action. Internal investigations are conducted based on binding, clearly defined standards to ensure the fair and respectful treatment of employees. These standards prohibit unlawful or disproportionate actions. However, if an internal investiga- tion leads to the finding that an employee has demonstrably violated any laws or internal regulations, they can expect appropriate disciplinary consequences. All circumstances within a compliance case, including the locally applicable legal environment and any participation rights of the competent employee representative bodies, are duly considered during the proceedings. Affected Siemens entities are obligated to implement the additional recommendations of the investigation reports, including measures to effectively remedy the situation. 1 At SHS, formal Compliance Risk Assessments are conducted every three years, with the last being performed in fiscal 2023. Compliance risk management To be effective, the Siemens compliance system needs to be continuously adjusted in order to meet business-specific risks and multiple local legal requirements. The findings from compliance risk assessments, along with compliance controls and audits, help us identify opportunities to further develop the compliance system. The goal of compliance risk management is to detect compli- ance risks early and take appropriate steps to prevent or mitigate risks. Risk assessments and tool solutions that support risk evaluations are also integrated into individual business processes to support our employees in taking appropriate risk mitigation steps. Compliance risk management is an integral part of the company-wide Siemens Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program SIEMENS FINANCIAL REPORT FOR FISCAL 2023, COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT, 8.3.1 STRATEGIC RISKS, which provides a holistic view of all identified risks throughout the Group. Every entity and region assesses their business risks in rela- tion to compliance risks. Current developments are also systematically evaluated. As a core part of our risk management process, we collabo- rate closely with relevant business units to identify and assess compliance risks within new digital business models. Continuous Compliance Risk Management implements a bottom-up evaluation of the local risk environment in each of Siemens' entities on a worldwide basis in all activity fields defined by Compliance. CEOs, business leaders, Compliance Officers, and experts from every entity meet during the fiscal year to identify and assess compliance risks.1 The risks iden- tified are then aggregated and presented during annual Compliance Risk and Performance Reviews to the Compli- ance Management Council. The risks are documented in the Compliance Risk Tracking tool. Additional information from internal data sources is included to provide a holistic overview of compliance risks. Cross- functional knowledge exchanges take place at regular meetings, and an annual Corporate Compliance Risk Work- shop helps us identify and monitor emerging or changing risks. The results of the risk assessments are a key starting point for the ongoing development of our compliance system. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 36



3.1 Compliance and ethics Targets Our ethics approach is also embedded in our DEGREE sustainability framework within the field of action Ethics. E Ethics Progress on DEGREE ambition #3: Striving to train 100% of our people on the Siemens Business Conduct Guidelines every three years As part of the DEGREE sustainability framework, Siemens has set itself the ambition of training all employees on BCGs in a three-year cycle. The current cycle started in fiscal 2023. By end of this fiscal year the new BCG training "Doing the right thing!" has been rolled out to 71% of all active employees worldwide with a current KPI result of 69% newly trained employees in this cycle. Therefore, the DEGREE ambition for Ethics is on track. Progress From FY 23 69% 100% by 2025 Siemens without SHS Actions and results Progress in fiscal 2023 In fiscal 2023, we continued to make progress with our Siemens compliance system, including: -> Enhancing our integrated risk management approach with updated technology to better continuously monitor and update risks. This enables us to rapidly adapt to factors like emerging risks, business transformation, and changing regulatory and geopolitical conditions. -> We are transforming and modernizing the technology that supports our compliance management system in order to keep pace with the digital transformation of our company. This includes our new cloud-based solutions, which we have leveraged to further streamline and auto- mate our risk-based compliance processes and support data-driven holistic risk management and continuous control activities. With these cloud-based solutions, we aim to improve assurance and efficiency of compliance activities at Siemens. Compliance training To ensure that compliance and integrity are embedded throughout the organization, Siemens employees and the Compliance organization receive targeted, group-oriented, risk-based training on compliance topics. Our employees learn through mandatory web-based train- ings and non-mandatory learning products about compli- ance topics and on the content of our BCGs. We train all our employees (full-time and part-time) worldwide. Employers of external employees are contractually obligated to comply with the Supplier Code of Conduct and must ensure compli- ance by external employees as part of the onboarding pro- cess We strive to train every employee worldwide on the BCGs in a recurring three-year cycle, according to the Ethics DEGREE target. The new three-year cycle started in fiscal 2023. In July 2023, the rollout of an update to our BCG web-based training began, which now includes our Ethical Principles. Our learning management system SABA tracks the mandatory training courses. The completion of training requirements is visible in our SABA dashboard, and detail reporting is available for the management on demand. In addition, materials are regularly offered through the Integrity Dialog initiative. With this initiative, managers have an opportunity to discuss and raise awareness of current compliance topics with their teams. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 37



3.1 Compliance and ethics Non-mandatory learning products in diverse formats are also presented in the form of learning paths in our global learning platform My Learning World. The BCG training was rolled out to 190,000 employees worldwide, and 129,000 of them (approximately 68%) had successfully completed the training by the end of fiscal 2023. 129,000 employees were trained on the content of our BCGs in fiscal 2023 Siemens employees around the world also completed about 461,000 training programs for specific target groups in fiscal 2023.2 "Ethical corporate governance and compliance are non-negotiable. Our approach goes beyond strict compliance with laws and regulations by placing integrity at the center of our corporate culture and business processes." CEO Roland Busch Compliance indicators and whistle-blowers Our employees use our reporting channels regularly. A total of 416 compliance cases that required an inquiry or investi- gation were reported in fiscal 2023. We believe that the increase in compliance cases from the previous year falls within the range of normal fluctuation. The total number of disciplinary measures imposed for compliance violations was 166 in fiscal 2023. The number of disciplinary measures in a fiscal year does not necessarily reflect the number of compliance cases reported in the same period. This is because disciplinary action may not be taken in the same year as the case was reported or when the investigation was completed. Furthermore, one compliance case may result in multiple disciplinary actions or none at all. 1 Continuing and discontinued operations. 2 Includes loss of variable and voluntary compensation components, transfer, and suspension. We believe that the evidence demonstrates that our compliance system is well-designed and effectively implemented. Due to the nature of our business operations, the environments where we work, and our company's geographic distribution, we do not regard the number of incidents as unusual. More information on significant ongoing and future charges of corruption, antitrust violations, and other violations of the law can be found in SIEMENS REPORT FOR FISCAL 2023, COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT, CHAPTER 8.3.4 COMPLIANCE RISKS, AND NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, NOTE 22 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Stakeholder involvement in our compliance approach Compliance-related questions are included in the annual Siemens Global Employee Survey in order to evaluate the effectiveness of the compliance system within the company. We also use the survey to acquire a better understanding of the degree to which ethical conduct is embedded in our corporate culture. The results of last year's survey show an increase in the already high approval rates3 relative to the perception and awareness of integrity, ethics, and responsible business conduct throughout the organization. 2 This figure includes Siemens Healthineers employees. 3 At the same time, the overall response rates decreased from 167,900 in fiscal 2022 to 161,550 in fiscal 2023. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 38



3.1 Compliance and ethics Collective Action and the Siemens Integrity Initiative We believe that in order for substantial progress to be made in combating corruption and fostering fair competition, large numbers of stakeholders must act collectively. The Siemens global Integrity Initiative earmarks more than US$ 100 million to support organizations and projects that combat corruption and fraud through Collective Action, education, and training. The Siemens Integrity Initiative focuses on supporting proj- ects that have a clear impact on the business environment, can demonstrate objective and measurable results, and have the potential to be scaled up and replicated. So far, we have allocated approximately US$ 120 million for 85 projects in more than 50 countries across all funding rounds. Detailed information on this subject is provided in the Siemens Integrity Initiative's annual reports. @WWW.SIEMENS.COM/INTEGRITY-INITIATIVE US$ 120 million in support for 85 projects in 50 countries The Siemens Integrity Initiative constitutes one element of a 2009 settlement between Siemens and the World Bank and another 2013 settlement between Siemens and the Euro- pean Investment Bank (EIB). SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 39



3.2 Human rights 3.2 Human rights - Commitment to respect human rights in accordance with international standards - Continuous assessment of actual and potential adverse impacts on people and environment throughout our value chain - Regular dialogs with human rights-focused external business coalitions Management approach As a global company, we are well aware of our responsibility to society. We are unreservedly committed to safeguarding and respecting human rights in every stage of the value chain. We understand this to be a key element of acting with integrity and responsible business conduct. The way we function in our own operations, in our supply chain, and in our downstream value chain may affect the economic development and advancement of society. Siemens takes a holistic approach to respecting human rights. We strive to continuously assess actual and potential adverse impacts on people and the environment and inte- grate our findings in our company's policies, procedures, and due diligence practices. Therefore, our commitment to respecting human rights is an integral part of our manage- ment systems and is embedded across company functions and business operations globally. Management and responsibilities The Siemens Managing Board and the Siemens Sustainability Board (SSB) monitor Siemens' actions in relation to human rights and our commitment to implementing the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. These bodies review our progress and our challenges and identify opportunities for improvement. The Chief Compliance Officer, also appointed to serve as the Siemens Human Rights Officer by the Managing Board of Siemens AG, reports to the Supervisory Board and Managing Board on a regular and ad hoc basis on issues concerning human rights: for example, the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act (LkSG), for which Legal Compliance is the overarching coordination body. The SSB has assigned overall responsibility for human rights to the Siemens Sustainability and Compliance departments. Their primary task is to proactively and systematically ensure that respect for human rights is deeply embedded in our company-wide processes and decision-making. To achieve this, both departments regularly assess opportunities for improvement in accordance with international standards. The Supply Chain, People and Organization, Environment, Health and Safety, Corporate Security, and Siemens Real Estate departments are responsible for embedding and maintaining human rights-related due diligence require- ments within their processes. This responsibility also includes the conceptualization and delivery of training and continuous learning formats. Commitment to human rights and international standards The principle of respect for human rights is firmly grounded in the United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Develop- ment. Siemens believes that the 17 Sustainability Develop- ment Goals (SDGs) can only be fully achieved if potentially negative impacts within the value chains are examined in detail and effective action is taken to counter them. In these efforts, we are guided by international standards that help companies define their approaches to human rights and continuously optimize them. These standards include the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises published by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). They highlight the importance of due diligence systems that proactively identify, assess, and mitigate potential adverse human rights impacts. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 40



3.2 Human rights



3.2 Human rights Siemens' human rights framework > II. Transactional human rights due diligence process Risk identification How are risks in projects identified? Risk assessment How are risks assessed? Q Grievance mechanism Risk management (incl. monitoring) What are effective mitigation measures? How are effective complaint channels provided? Human rights in customer-related business Siemens is committed to operationalizing systematic and preventive human rights due diligence along its value chain. This is also applicable to downstream due diligence with a focus on customer-related business. The early detection of environmental and social risks plays a key role in human rights due diligence. We are strengthening our governance with regards to envi- ronmental, social, and human rights due diligence in customer-related business through targeted capacity-building, continuous due diligence tool-related enhancements (in our ESG Risk Due Diligence Tool, the ESG Radar), expanding relevant risk indicators for risk oversight creation, embedding environmental and social risk considerations in the company's risk management processes, and strengthening risk mitigation pathways with the support of external human rights expertise. We are also enhancing our control mechanisms with a primary focus on our business sales department and contin- uously reassessing material areas of adverse impacts - for example, those resulting from certain business fields - so that they can be embedded in our due diligence systems. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 42



3.2 Human rights These initiatives have been incorporated into our internal guidelines and policies. They have also led to the creation of customized roles and responsibilities within our key functions, our businesses, and our regions. As part of our commitment to responsible business conduct, we have piloted the process of environmental, social, and human rights deep-dive due diligence that will be conducted annually for established key business partners and strategic partners. This process has been piloted in fiscal 2023 and will become mandatory beginning in fiscal 2024. Material human rights risks that we have identified in our value chain are summarized in the table below. Material human rights risk issues in our value chain Human rights risk issues in the supply chain > Fair working conditions > Freedom of assembly > Discrimination > Forced labor › Child labor > Health and safety Human rights risk issues in own workforce › Fair working conditions › Freedom of association and collective bargaining > Discrimination › Forced labor › Child labor > Health and safety Ş L cos Human rights risk issues in the case of business decisions by customers › Business-specific environmental and social risks1 › Country-specific risks › Impacts on local communities (e.g., Indigenous population, ethnic or religious minorities) › Fair working conditions › Modern slavery > Discrimination › Occupied territories 1 Including in the areas of coal, oil, and gas and mining, for example. Training and skill building Our continuous skill building activities are geared toward specific target groups. Siemens provides interactive training formats for employees, suppliers, and global and regional salespeople and for specific functions like Sustainability, Compliance, and Environment, Health, and Safety (EHS). In fiscal 2023, we revised the mandatory BCG training for our people and included specifics on fundamental rights at work. External and internal expert dialogs and regular knowledge- sharing are also conducted in the area of environmental and social risks: for example, on responsible business due diligence in conflict regions. Grievance mechanism and channels Siemens offers protected channels for reporting violations of external and internal rules to all our people and external third parties. The reports generated by these channels are forwarded to our Compliance organization and followed up. The same channels can also be used to report human rights violations to the company. 7 COMPLIANCE AND ETHICS Networks and coalitions We maintain a regular dialog with our peers, and we aim to establish mutual trust and drive a more in-depth discussion on human rights. This kind of dialog focuses on discussing challenges and solutions, addressing areas of improvement with regard to responsible business conduct practices, and identifying potential areas to join forces. We firmly believe that we can achieve faster, more impactful progress through collective action compared to acting alone. Siemens is a member of the Global Business Initiative on Human Rights (GBI). This initiative is one of the leading international network initiatives in the field of human rights. Siemens is also represented in the UN Global Compact Net- work's European Business and Human Rights Peer Learning Group. In Germany, Siemens is involved in econsense2 working groups in the areas of business and human rights and human rights in the supply chain. In addition to regular dialogs with peers and think tanks, we engage with external human rights advisors to derive responsible risk mitigation pathways, training and capacity- building methods, and ways to strengthen due diligence practices. In addition, we engage with investors, sharehold- ers, customers, journalists, rating agencies, and NGOS. 2 econsense is a forum for the sustainable development of German business. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 43



3.3 Sustainable supply chain practices 3.3 Sustainable supply chain practices - Based on a holistic "Prevent - Detect - Respond" approach - Evaluation of suppliers based on self-assessments and on-site audits - Focus on human rights: climate protection and responsible sourcing of minerals Management approach Siemens procures materials and services from all over the world. We work with approximately 67,700 suppliers in around 140 countries. In fiscal 2023, Siemens purchased goods and services valued at just under €37 billion, the equivalent of about half of our total revenue. Due to the varying conditions in these countries, ensuring strict compli- ance with our globally applicable sustainability requirements poses a significant challenge for our daily procurement practices. Our purchasing activities have impacts on our suppliers, local communities, and the environment in our procurement markets. As such, we monitor and engage with our suppliers to drive and support their efforts to enhance sustainability practices. Our supplier relationships provide us with the opportunity to make contributions to securing jobs and promoting adherence to both international work and envi- ronmental standards. Using our holistic sustainable supply chain management approach, we work to prevent situations where suppliers may be tempted to compromise the well- being of their workforce or violate environmental regulations. Siemens purchased goods and services worth €37 billion from about 140 countries Our governance and policies for strategic procurement The core objectives of the strategic procurement processes are to sustain the company's success by making a consistently high contribution to our earnings from purchases of materials and services, to assert high quality standards along the entire supply chain, to identify and exploit opportunities to create value through procurement competence, and to ensure compliance and sustainability. Sustainability is our guiding principle. The sustainability initiatives we take are an essential aspect of the successful implementation of our programs. Our understanding of sustainability in the supply chain is based on our company values to be responsible, excellent and innova- tive. As a Support Function in the Service and Governance units, Siemens Supply Chain Management has the process and regulation responsibilities for procurement principles. Our mandated purchasing units take general responsibility for implementing and complying with Siemens' procurement principles. Therefore, only mandated purchasing units are authorized to conclude contracts with suppliers. We have developed policies that describe our standards for suppliers in terms of their social, environmental, and ethical performance. They lay the foundation for guiding supplier selection, evaluation, and ongoing engagement. The Siemens Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Third-Party Intermediaries (Supplier Code of Conduct) is designed to cover our sustainability requirements. Among other princi- ples, it is based on the principles outlined in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and our Business Conduct Guidelines (BCGs), which sets out the basic principles of sustainability for our suppliers. The Supplier Code of Conduct requires suppliers to adhere to standards on: -> Fundamental rights of employees, including a protected grievance mechanism for employees -> Health, safety, and environmental protection SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 44



3.3 Sustainable supply chain practices -> Zero-tolerance strategy to prevent corruption and bribery -> Preventing purchases of conflict minerals produced in certain countries that yield profits for armed groups, in particular -> Preventing money-laundering and terrorist financing -> Export control and customs -> Data protection -> Compelling their suppliers to comply with the principles of our Supplier Code of Conduct Sustainable business practices are an integral part of our Procurement Principles at Siemens. For instance, it requires the Supplier Code of Conduct to be incorporated into all new and extended procurement contracts. Procurement is responsible for ensuring that suppliers accept the Supplier Code of Conduct and do not depart from it. Targets We expect all suppliers to commit to and follow our Supplier Code of Conduct. This is also reflected in our DEGREE sustainability framework as a part of the Governance field of action.1 G Governance Progress on DEGREE ambition #4: ESG-secured supply chain based on supplier commitment to our Supplier Code of Conduct We expect our suppliers not only to contribute to the economic success of our company but also to ensure strict compliance with our sustainability require- ments, which are summarized in the Siemens Supplier Code of Conduct. The obligation of suppliers to observe our Code of Conduct is an essential founda- tion for fulfilling our governance ambitions bundled under "G" in our DEGREE sustainability framework. Progress Suppliers committed Siemens without SHS 1 Siemens without SHS. The Decarbonization field of action commits us to reducing upstream emissions in our supply chain. As part of this effort, Siemens has set a target to reduce CO2e emissions generated in our supply chain by 20% by 2030 compared to 2020. We also aim to achieve Net Zero emissions in our supply chain by 2050.1 D Decarbonization Progress on DEGREE ambition #2: Net Zero supply chain by 2050, 20% emissions reduction by 2030 In fiscal 2023, supply chain emissions decreased by 1% compared to the baseline year 2020, reaching 8,029 kt CO2e, with the carbon reduction measures implemented by our suppliers being reflected in this number. If the increase in purchasing volume of around 33% is included, CO2e emissions were however reduced even further in relation to the purchasing volume. Progress FY 20: 8,098 kt CO2e -1% -20% by 2030 - 100% by 2050 Siemens without SHS Actions and results Supplier management follows clear criteria At Siemens, supply chain sustainability is supported by a holistic Prevent - Detect - Respond approach with the aim of effectively mitigating risks. Our aim is to raise supplier awareness of the importance of integrating our values and meeting sustainability require- ments. Siemens also provides web-based training on sustainability and human rights in the supply chain for all our suppliers. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 45



3.3 Sustainable supply chain practices The supplier management process at Siemens incorporates strict criteria for supplier selection and qualification. When engaging with new suppliers, we categorize and if necessary proactively address potential sustainability risks based on these criteria. This may apply to suppliers exhibiting the following risk characteristics: -> Locations in high-risk countries -> Products subject to the requirements for the responsible sourcing of minerals -> Products and services with large carbon footprints To identify these risk characteristics, we categorize our suppliers as follows: -> Purchased material and service fields: We classify suppliers based on the specific types of materials and services they provide. This allows us to tailor our measures to individual suppliers: for example, incorporating specific contract clauses, requesting proof of compliance, or flagging them for on-site audits. -> Country risk levels: Suppliers are assigned to risk levels based on country-specific sustainability indicators in areas like legal compliance, corruption and bribery, human rights in the workplace, and child labor. We centralize sustainability-related data about our suppliers on the SCM Sustainability Platform, which enables us to gather information from diverse internal and external sources. This includes data on carbon reduction initiatives, corporate responsibility self-assessments (CRSA), on-site audit results, and risks associated with conflict minerals. All employees in Siemens' purchasing departments can access this integrated tool. Information is evaluated in the platform using a point system and is presented visually. This uniform assessment approach enables sustainability to serve as a consistent evaluation factor throughout Siemens. It supports and complements local purchasing decisions with globally available supplier sustainability information. Self-assessments and site audits as control mechanisms Based on the risk categories, we conduct appropriate evalu- ations of suppliers in accordance with our risk assessment. These reviews range from supplier self-assessments of their own sustainability practices to on-site sustainability audits conducted by external auditors. Corporate Responsibility Self-Assessments CRSAs are an integral part of our supplier qualification pro- cess. They are subject to regular review and updates to align them with evolving standards and regulations. As part of this process, potential suppliers undergo a mandatory qualifica- tion procedure, while existing suppliers are re-assessed every three years. The number of completed CRSAs increased by about 4% from 4,912 in fiscal 2022 to 5,096 in fiscal 2023. The number of agreed-upon improvement measures increased in fiscal 2023 to 5,493, as compared to the 3,109 reported in fiscal 2022. 1 Self-assessments completed mainly by suppliers from non-OECD countries with a purchasing volume of > €50,000 per year. Questionnaires that were initiated, completed, and concluded in the reporting period. 2 Commonwealth of Independent States. 3 Improvement measures agreed on with suppliers relate either to actual deviations from the Supplier Code of Conduct, structural improvements in management systems, or a lack of specific processes and guidelines implemented by the supplier. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 46



3.3 Sustainable supply chain practices External sustainability audits From our perspective, external sustainability audits are the most effective means of evaluating our suppliers' sustain- ability performance. These audits are conducted by our external audit service provider and serve as a control mechanism for suppliers identified as high-risk. 1 Commonwealth of Independent States. 2 Includes audits conducted virtually as well as audits carried out by third parties at our suppliers based on the same standards, which are accepted by Siemens. 3 Improvement measures agreed on with suppliers are based on actual deviations from the Supplier Code of Conduct, structural improvements in management systems, or a lack of specific processes and guidelines implemented by the supplier. We slightly increased the number of external sustainability audits compared to fiscal 2022. In fiscal 2023, the figure rose by about 13% to 481 audits. This figure includes 13 audits that we conducted virtually, where the auditor inspected the suppliers' facilities by remote video. Also included are four audits verified by our audit service provider that were conducted on behalf of third parties at companies that also have supplier relationships with Siemens. These audit reports fully comply with Siemens' requirements and were provided to us with the approval of the audited companies. We also may repeat audits or conduct follow-up audits through our external audit service provider. Our responsible purchasing departments at Siemens can also agree on a series of improvement measures with suppliers. In fiscal 2023, improvement measures were agreed on to address a variety of potential social impacts. These impacts include human rights and the health and safety of employees as well as environmental impacts like a lack of certification and failure to reduce CO2e emissions. During this process, we remain committed to our supplier partnerships, and we work to help them improve. However, if problems persist, or the supplier demonstrates a lack of willingness to take the necessary corrective actions, we remove them from our supplier list. Suppliers can also be blocked in local systems around the world via our IT-based Global Master Data Management process for suppliers. Sustainability topics with a specific need for action Two focus topics play an important role in our sustainable supply chain practices, given their strong connection to other sustainability initiatives at Siemens. These include the responsible sourcing of minerals and reducing CO2e emis- sions in our supply chain. Responsible sourcing of minerals Siemens is working hard to prevent the use of minerals from areas of conflict, and high-risk areas in the supply chain that are covered by the risk definition set out in Annex 2 of the OECD's Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. To support the responsible sourcing of minerals, we developed the Responsible Minerals Sourcing Policy, which is integrated into our purchasing process. This policy sets a uniform standard for supply chain management across the company. Our approach aligns with the risk-based require- ments of the OECD's Due Diligence Guidance. To determine the use, sources, and origins of these minerals in our supply chains, we investigate the smelting plants involved. Siemens is a member of the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI), an organization of more than 400 industrial companies that provide auditing programs for smelting. We use the Conflict Minerals Reporting Template (CMRT) published by the RMI to survey our more than 2,300 relevant suppliers and elicit the information we need about smelters in our SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 47



3.3 Sustainable supply chain practices supply chain that are associated with the production of tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold (3TG). We share our findings on identified smelters with our RMI partners. The initiative then reviews the smelters' certification. In this process, Siemens supports the smelters as they move toward the final audit and certification stage. Individual results are communicated on the RMI website WWW.RESPONSIBLE- MINERALSINITIATIVE.ORG. Siemens extends its risk assessment system to evaluate minerals beyond the 3TG grouping using the risk definitions provided by the European Commission for "armed conflict," "areas witnessing weak or non-existent governance and security," and "[areas with] widespread and systematic vio- lations of international law, including human rights abuses." Cobalt and mica are two minerals that have been included in Siemens' due diligence process. This inclusion follows the RMI's development of an auditing standard and reporting specifications - the Extended Minerals Reporting Template (EMRT), designed specifically for cobalt and mica - in addition to the existing specifications for 3TG minerals. Siemens conducts supplier audits for cobalt and mica, with a particular focus on battery manufacturers. More information and the text of our Responsible Minerals Sourcing Policy can be found at @www.SIEMENS.COM/ RESPONSIBLEMINERALS. Our Carbon Reduction@Suppliers program In our Carbon Reduction@Suppliers program, we collaborate with an external partner to analyze the economic data and model the carbon footprint of each of our suppliers. To facilitate this process, we utilize a web-based tool called supplier+s that highlights the main sources of suppliers' CO2e emissions and provides guidance on how to reduce them. Once suppliers have completed the learning phase, they provide us with their primary data through the tool. Supplier+s is based on the following methodology: -> Suppliers are categorized into product or service categories and country of origin and are then assigned an industry average for CO2e emissions based on the calculation model developed by our external partner. -> We ask our suppliers to provide information via supplier+s about their implemented CO2e reduction measures and their overall CO2e management. Based on their responses, we calculate the resulting emissions reduction and the remaining carbon footprint of the supplier. Positive feedback on our Carbon Reduction@Suppliers pro- gram encouraged us to open the formerly internal tool (CWA Carbon Web Assessment) to external use by other companies in the form of the supplier+s tool. Detailed information on supplier+s is provided at @ www.SIEMENS.COM/CARBON-SUPPLIERS. 4,324 suppliers - who stand for 43% of our Scope 3 upstream (tier 1) footprint - have provided us with primary data by taking part in our Carbon Reduction@Suppliers program. 2,038 of them have shared their decarbonization plans with us by joining the supplier+s platform, which was launched in fiscal 2023. Based on the responses we received and calcu- lated, there was an average reduction of 9% in the previously calculated emissions for these suppliers, equivalent to a decrease of 464,000 metric tons of CO2e. This indicates that our suppliers have been more supportive in reducing our carbon footprint in the supply chain compared to the previous year's reduction of 359,000 metric tons of CO2e. This effort helped reduce our Siemens Scope 3 upstream footprint against our baseline year 2020 by 0.9% and against the previous year 2022 by 3.3%.1 SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 48 1 Siemens without SHS



3.4 Cybersecurity and data privacy 3.4 Cybersecurity and data privacy - Leading role in cybersecurity - Global expertise and governance structures We believe that data protection is an integral part of respon- sible business conduct. Cybersecurity and data privacy are key success factors for Siemens, and for digitalization in general. While data privacy practices cover personal data from a legal perspective, cybersecurity focuses on protecting products, solutions, and services, information technology (IT), and operational technology (OT). Our primary objective is to maintain strong data protection and a high level of cybersecurity for the company and all our stakeholders. Cybersecurity Management approach Cybersecurity is rapidly growing in importance Digital systems have become indispensable in many sectors of the economy: for instance, in hospitals, factories, smart buildings, e-mobility, and connected mobility. Wherever sensitive data are stored, potential security threats are never far away. As a result, cybersecurity is one of today's most relevant issues, not just for companies but for society as a whole. Its relevance is only expected to increase, with cyber- security becoming crucial for helping businesses safeguard critical infrastructures, protect sensitive information, and ensure business continuity. As one of Siemens' strategic goals, the digital transformation will only succeed if Siemens can be certain that connected systems and the data contained within them will remain secure. That is why Siemens places the highest priority on cybersecurity. Siemens' products, solutions, and services contain a signifi- cant amount of software and IT-related components and are often used in the context of critical infrastructures - which means that they can be more exposed to cyberthreats. Regulatory- and customer-specific security requirements are increasing, and Siemens needs to address them. Siemens takes a holistic approach to addressing cybersecurity in the best interest of our customers. It is essential to the comprehensive protection of both industry and society from internal and external cyberattacks. Our cybersecurity governance and policies The Cybersecurity Board (CSB), chaired by the Global Chief Cybersecurity Officer, is responsible for the implementation and coordination of cybersecurity throughout Siemens. The member of the Siemens AG Managing Board responsible for cybersecurity is part of the CSB, as are the Chief Cybersecurity Officers of each of Siemens' businesses. Given the importance of cybersecurity for the senior man- agement, the Global Chief Cybersecurity Officer reports directly to the responsible member of the Managing Board, quarterly to the entire Managing Board, and annually to the Supervisory Board. The CSB provides a collaborative platform for advancing strategic initiatives that address security issues and establish cybersecurity requirements and recommendations through- out Siemens and its affiliated companies. In addition, a collaboration agreement enables the Chief Cybersecurity Officer at Siemens Healthineers to participate in the CSB. Having recognized early on that cybersecurity is an integral part of the digital revolution, Siemens built a cybersecurity organization both at the corporate level and in the busi- nesses and countries. All information security rules and regulations at Siemens are documented and detailed in the Cybersecurity Policy Framework. The framework outlines the roles and responsibilities and the rules and practices that offer a guide for how Siemens and its business units protect information and business processes. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 49



3.4 Cybersecurity and data privacy The Information Security Policies define the mandatory high- level requirements and general rules for information security. The policies serve as blueprints for establishing and managing information security at Siemens. The requirements are based on the domains defined in Annex A of the international standard ISO/IEC 27001. Siemens' cybersecurity governance has been ISO 27001-certified since November 2017. Our commitment to cybersecurity is further reinforced by Siemens' participation in founding the "Charter of Trust"1 initiative to protect data and promote cybersecurity in a trustworthy digital world. Targets Our DEGREE sustainability framework addresses the topic of cybersecurity under "E" for Ethics. We are proactively working toward safeguarding and promoting cybersecurity at Siemens. To achieve this, Siemens employees need to complete a web-based training on cybersecurity on an annual basis. Actions and results The Corporate Cybersecurity department and the cybersecurity departments in our businesses manage the following issues and activities: -> Developing and implementing proactive cybersecurity strategies adapted to the business -> Proactive and reactive measures for product and solution security and to safeguard information technology and operational technology -> Risk management framework as a part of the Enterprise Risk Management system with clearly defined roles -> Monitoring and reporting on the status and progress of cybersecurity measures and checks -> Cybersecurity-readiness and second-line-of-defense2 -> Developing mandatory global cybersecurity awareness measures, annual IT cybersecurity global awareness train- ings, and specific cybersecurity expertise 1 https://www.charteroftrust.com/. 2 https://www.siemens.com/global/en/company/digital-transformation/cybersecurity/ governance.html# SecondLineofDefense. Siemens is one of the industry leaders in cybersecurity. Our cybersecurity performance is highly regarded, as evidenced by our sustainability ratings and rankings. For example, the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) has ranked Siemens as a leading company in cybersecurity relative to our peers. Siemens products, solutions, and services Siemens is implementing a company-wide Product and Solution Security (PSS) initiative. The objectives of the initia- tive are to formulate PSS recommendations and binding requirements and to apply and continuously improve them in all the businesses. The PSS initiative is managed by the PSS Maturity model, a proprietary, standards-based model. It shows the extent to which the established business and design processes are being expanded and constantly improved in terms of their security activities and requirements. Evaluations are per- formed annually at the organizational level, the results are discussed with each unit's management team, and corre- sponding improvement programs are initiated. To further strengthen Siemens' cybersecurity business, our businesses offer selected high-maturity security services to external customers in collaboration with the Corporate Cybersecurity department. Continuing education and young talent development In fiscal 2023, 95% of our employees completed the manda- tory cybersecurity awareness training. The training cycle began in January 2023 and ran until the end of September 2023. In addition, we offer the training "Driver's License" to a target group of approximately 8,000 employees who are trained to apply all of Siemens' IT/OT security guidelines. All of our employees also have access to continually updated training courses and learning opportunities on product and solution security through My Learning World, the Siemens global learning platform. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 50



3.4 Cybersecurity and data privacy Due to the growing demand for cybersecurity experts, we launched the CyberMinds Academy in 2022. This is a world- wide one-year program that combines learning modules with professional experience designed to develop young talents into cybersecurity specialists. Cybersecurity insurance and risk analysis To protect the company and reduce the potential financial impact of cyber incidents, we have explored risk transfer options in detail. Following an international call for insurance bids, the currently insurable cyber risks were transferred to a group of insurers in fiscal 2021. The coverage emphasizes losses caused by incidents such like as breaches of information security and data privacy within Siemens or by third parties. The scope and limits of the risk transfer to the insurance market are reviewed annually. Siemens' Cybersecurity department has also acted to mitigate risk even more. For example: -> As industrial environments become increasingly digi- talized, the share of software grows significantly, as does the number of associated vulnerabilities. To mitigate these risks, Siemens is automating the collection and distribution of information about vulnerabilities with the goal of offering end-to-end security for our customers. These efforts include our collaboration with the Common Security Advisory Framework (CSAF) 2.0 from the OASIS Consortium -> Since 2022, Siemens has been working intensively to encrypt the most important data in the post-quantum era. As part of this work, the previous crypto algorithms have had be completely replaced with new methods. Because it is our expectation that crypto algorithms will need to be updated much more frequently in the future, the project also addresses the encryption lifecycle in the form of an expiration date for the classification of docu- ments. -> Our Zero Trust initiative, whose motto is "Never trust, always verify," has been extended to fiscal 2024. The objective is to check every internal and external connection between IT/OT devices and products in real time and only permit trustworthy communications. Proactive approach to handling threats and vulnerabilities, reactive approach to incidents Siemens CERT3 and Siemens ProductCERT are dedicated teams of experienced security experts who can provide an immediate response to potential security threats and incidents affecting Siemens' products, solutions, services, or infrastructure. Siemens CERT secures our internal infrastructure, continu- ously monitors cyberthreats, and evaluates their potential impact on the company. When security incidents occur, our experts analyze the causes and initiate countermeasures to minimize harmful impacts, and the appropriate stakeholder groups (and the authorities, if required) are informed. Under the Special Vulnerability Handling program, CERT also takes proactive steps to support a consistently high level of protection by addressing potential vulnerabilities before any damage occurs. The ProductCERT team addresses security issues that affect Siemens products and solutions. It is the central point of contact for reports of security gaps in Siemens products. As a key partner of the Siemens business units, the ProductCERT team supports the entire process - from identification to resolution of vulnerabilities - and provides crucial informa- tion to customers. Updated Siemens Security Advisories are published on a monthly basis to ensure our level of transpar- ency. With the CSAF format, we are among the leading industrial manufacturers for the automated distribution of vulnerability information. In addition, our Vilocify Vulnerability Services4 continually search for information about vulnerabilities in software and hardware components used in Siemens' products and infra- structures. As a final step, product security must be guaranteed by means of verification tests. To this end, we have developed the Siemens Extensible Security Testing Application (SiESTA5), which enables the dedicated identification of vulnerabilities in infrastructures, products, and solutions. 3 Computer Emergency Response Team. 4 https://www.siemens.com/global/en/products/services/digital-enterprise-services/ industrial-security-services/vilocify-vulnerability-services.html. 5 https://new.siemens.com/global/en/products/services/cybersecurity/siesta.html. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 51



3.4 Cybersecurity and data privacy Artificial intelligence in cybersecurity Artificial intelligence (AI) serves a crucial function in Siemens' cybersecurity endeavors. The Siemens Al-based implementation dynamically identifies security threats by detecting anomalies in our network and systems. This action taken against security breaches helps mitigate potential harm. AI also boosts the effectiveness of our cybersecurity proce- dures by automating day-to-day tasks. This automation enables our security teams to concentrate on more intricate and pressing issues. Despite the advantages, it is important to note that AI can also be used as a tool of cyber attackers by enhancing the complexity of their malicious actions. The attackers might harness AI to automate their attacks, evade conventional security systems, or even simulate human behavior to escape detection. To be well-prepared for these scenarios, we've established stringent security protocols aimed at ensuring a safe and responsible application of AI. Our approach helps maintain the integrity of our systems and shields us from potential risks. Through meticulous implementation and ongoing surveil- lance, we intend to minimize these risks and amplify the benefits of AI. Data privacy Management approach Protection of personal data in the era of digitalization Siemens believes that protecting the personal data of our stakeholders is our ethical responsibility. As digitalization and new technologies like artificial intelligence advance, data protection becomes increasingly important for our stakeholders and for Siemens' success. That is why processing personal data in compliance with applicable data protection laws, including the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), is of utmost importance to Siemens. Our data privacy governance and policies Siemens has established a global Data Privacy organization that follows Siemens' business structure with data privacy responsibility residing with each business unit and country. Overall responsibility lies with the Chief Data Privacy Officer who reports directly to the CEO of Siemens AG, on an annual and ad hoc basis. The Chief Data Privacy Officer also issues the internal Siemens Data Privacy Policies. Our Corporate data privacy team manages and oversees regulations, policies, and standards for data privacy in conjunction with Data Privacy Managers in the business units and countries. Our internal Compliance Policy requires every Siemens employee to collect and process personal data confidentially, only for legitimate and predetermined purposes, and in a transparent manner. This requirement is also reflected in our BCGs, which contain a section on data privacy requiring every employee to comply with the data protection require- ments of the laws and regulations within the legal systems where they are operating, as well as with Siemens' policies. In addition, the Siemens Compliance Handbook contains requirements for processing personal data, for documentation, and for reporting incidents. Transfers of personal data within the Group are covered by binding internal data protection regulations: the Siemens Binding Corporate Rules on Data Protection (BCR). With the BCR, Siemens Group companies around the world have an obligation to process personal data from data subjects in the European Union in accordance with European data protection standards, even when the recipient of the personal data is located outside the European Economic Area (EEA). Targets Our DEGREE sustainability framework prioritizes the careful handling of data under "E" for Ethics. Our overarching goal is a zero-tolerance approach to breaches of applicable laws and our own internal guidelines. We are proactively working toward achieving this goal by implementing our data privacy management system. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 52



3.4 Cybersecurity and data privacy Actions and results Siemens' data privacy management system To put our data privacy measures into action throughout the Group, Siemens has made them an integral part of our com- pliance system. Our data privacy management system was established to ensure that all our business activities comply with data privacy requirements and the applicable laws. The system specifies policies, procedures, and controls required by the GDPR, including data subject rights, a privacy incident process, mandatory trainings, audits, and keeping a record of processing activities. Transparency and rights of data subjects Our websites, digital products, and solutions include data privacy policy statements that inform users about processing steps and data subject rights. When we process personal data on behalf of customers, we do so under contractual regulations that govern how the data is handled, including the transfer of customer data to third parties. We want our people to be committed to data protection and regular training Siemens' employees receive regular training on how to handle personal data that is tailored to specific functions and target groups. For this purpose, we developed a web- based data protection training program consisting of an "Essentials" level that is mandatory for all employees who process personal data as part of their job and specialized "Nuggets" designed for specific fields and target groups. 39 Data privacy management system to ensure compliance with data protection requirements in all business processes Data protection in our products and solutions (privacy by design) Siemens wants to ensure that its products and solutions can be used in compliance with all relevant data protection rules. At Siemens, privacy by design means that compliance with the law, transparency, informational self-determination, data minimization, and data security are already applied when products and services are developed. Therefore, privacy by design is integrated into our product development processes. Assessing and fostering our privacy by design processes was a key focus area in fiscal 2023. Privacy by design at Siemens is supported by our Privacy by Design Toolkit, a software solution that helps process owners incorporate data privacy in all the stages of product development. One of the Toolkit modules includes data privacy questions that must be answered before the launch of a planned product or service. The toolkit is intended to integrate data privacy from the very beginning of a product's development. We also rolled out a new privacy by design awareness training program for product developers in a virtual classroom, learn about and discuss data privacy challenges drawn from real business examples. As part of our global audit plan, selected Siemens products were also included in our data privacy audits. Data protection at our suppliers and partners Data protection requirements are consistently observed and implemented within the Group and by our external suppliers and partners. Suppliers and partners undergo a preliminary data protection audit and are required by contract to adhere to data protection standards. Documentation Siemens documents the purpose, risk, and security standards applied to all the Group's processing activities in a central database: the Register of Processing Activities. This register allows us to evaluate whether data protection law permits a given processing activity and to document compliance with the applicable laws. Controls All data protection requirements and measures at Siemens are subject to regular controls. Siemens conducts risk-based data protection audits of its processing activities, products, and services. Treatment of data protection violations In the event of a potential data protection violation, a rapid response is essential to ensuring that the violation is swiftly stopped and corrected. To facilitate this, Siemens has estab- lished a global Data Privacy Incident Process that uses central reporting channels and aims to immediately inform all internal and external stakeholders (including the data subjects and regulatory authorities). SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 53



Pages 54 - 80 Environment Conservation of nature and resources 2 Improving energy productivity (EP), use of electric vehicles (EV), and use of renewable energy (RE). 1 Siemens without SHS. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 54



Holistic environmental protection Holistic environmental protection Management approach Siemens is a global company with locations all over the world and activities across a wide range of markets. With our global reach, we aim to minimize our negative impacts and maximize our positive impacts on the environment: from the production of raw materials for our products and in our supply chain and our own production operations to the use, recycling, and disposal of those products. The significance of environmental protection is continuously increasing. In a rapidly growing global economy characterized by ongoing urbanization and rising population numbers, Siemens supports a number of global green transformation initiatives. These initiatives include the European Green Deal, which aims to transition to a circular economy, restore biodiversity, reduce pollutant emissions into the environ- ment, reduce net greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% below 1990 levels by 2030, and achieve climate neutrality by 2050. As part of the New Circular Economy Action Plan, the European Commission proposed the Ecodesign for Sustainable Products Regulation (ESPR) in March 2022. This regulation aims to address products' most harmful environmental impacts and to transition society from a linear approach to a circular approach to conducting business. Our governance and policies on environmental protection The Siemens' Chief People and Sustainability Officer, a mem- ber of the Managing Board, works to ensure that we operate in compliance with our environmental guidelines. Our EHS Principles serve as internal binding guidelines for this purpose. Our internal sustainability network includes environmental officers at our sites and specialists in product-related envi- ronmental protection. The Environmental Protection depart- ment is developing programs to support Siemens' businesses in their efforts to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in our operations and promote resource efficiency. The Sustainability department is responsible for the consolidated Siemens GHG reporting and our Net Zero Operations Program. With the support of our EHS experts and sustainability officers, the operational managers in our global units oversee the implementation of environmental guidelines and programs. Siemens has also founded expert panels to ensure that environmental considerations are integral to our decision- making. The Global Board EHS is comprised of subject-matter experts who develop environmental protection measures and programs and provide advice to the Chief People and Sustainability Officer in consultation with the Siemens Sustainability Board. Siemens' Environmental Council assesses Siemens' environ- mental risks, opportunities, and trends based on uniform criteria and reports them to the Siemens Enterprise Risk Management. The council is composed of environmental experts from our business units and countries as well as experts in corporate governance, environmental protection, supply chain, sustainability, finance, technology, real estate, and insurance. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 55



Holistic environmental protection Siemens governs all relevant ecological considerations through our Environmental Protection Standards. These policies enable us to oversee and improve environmental management at our sites and to involve our suppliers, service providers, and contracting partners through the Siemens Group Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Third-Party Inter- mediaries. With these policies and activities, we extend environmental protection beyond our own business opera- tions. Our environmental policies also include a commitment to increasingly mitigate the environmental impact of our products, systems, solutions, and services. WEBSITE ON ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Evaluating sustainability aspects is integral to our due diligence guidance. This means considering environmental protection in decisions about corporate mergers and acquisitions. Our environmental policies require our sites to avoid activities that have negative impacts on local biodiversity, conduct water risk analyses, and implement water protection mea- sures. These factors are particularly important in vulnerable areas. The policies also include mandatory regulations for handling and reducing CO2e emissions and waste, especially landfill waste. Lastly, we drive environmental awareness with our Business Conduct Guidelines and Supplier Code of Conduct, which include environmental protection requirements. 7 SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTICES 7 COMPLIANCE AND ETHICS Targets We strive to go beyond legal requirements by managing the environmental impact of our business activities throughout the value chain. We are also aiming to increase our align- ment with economic, ecological, and social requirements. This helps us to increase our customers' competitiveness, while simultaneously supporting the environmental compat- ibility of our business. In collaboration with our business partners, we plan to steadily reduce the environmental impact of our products, systems, solutions, and services. We do this by creating options for repair, reuse, recycling, and refurbishment and by minimizing our own use or consumption of energy, materials, and supplies - while also minimizing emissions. Siemens' environmental objectives and ambitions are embedded in our Eco Efficiency @ Siemens environmental program, the DEGREE sustainability framework, and other environmental initiatives. The respective targets are detailed in the Environmental chapters that follow. Actions and results Environmental management standards and systems Our environmental management is based on the ISO 14001 and 50001 standards for energy-intensive business units and on the IEC 62430 norm for the environmentally compatible design of products, systems, solutions, and services. Our own mandatory standard aims to ensure the implemen- tation of these norms, stating that all Siemens' sites are required to have an environmental management system in accordance with ISO 14001. Sites must also operate in com- pliance with existing local environmental regulations and our internal environmental guidelines. Internal environmen- tal audits are conducted at least once per year to assess and monitor environmental protection at our sites. As a result, all of our sites have an environmental manage- ment system in place. At least 182 of them, of which 180 have been audited by external auditors, have environmental management systems that are certified according to the ISO 14001 standard. This certification requires, among other things, that all employees whose work has an impact on the environment at these sites be trained in personnel- and location-specific environmental protection topics. Training on environmental protection We are continuously working to increase and improve the knowledge and awareness of our employees of environmental protection. To this end, Siemens has implemented mandatory awareness trainings on environmental topics for all employees as it is covered in the Siemens Business Conduct Guidelines. Our information campaigns on World Environment Day and Earth Overshoot Day aim to raise awareness of environmen- tal protection in a global context. As part of the "Thank You" campaign, we recognize employees who have made excep- tional contributions to environmental conservation, and we share their portraits and success stories on our Siemens World internal information platform. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 56



Holistic environmental protection Our Eco Efficiency @ Siemens program Our Eco Efficiency @ Siemens program addresses environ- mental factors specific to our products, systems, solutions, and services and our production. It also defines objectives for improving our environmental management: for example, by encouraging a circular economy and generally demateri- alizing our business processes. The program has three components. At the center of the Responsible Product Development program component is our Robust Eco Design approach. The program intends to introduce methods and rules for dematerialization along the entire value chain. The second component of the program, a Clean Supply Chain, aims to increase the percentage of sec- ondary materials we use and to reduce regulated substances by 2030. The third component, Efficient Own Operations, aims to reduce environmental impacts at our own sites. DEGREE, Eco Efficiency @ Siemens, and our environmental initiatives give Siemens a broad range of instruments to guide our objectives in environmental protection Green Deal We continue to pursue the Green Deals @ Siemens project with the goal of evaluating the European Union's Green Deal policy and similar developments around the world and implementing the associated requirements. Specialized project groups are working to ensure that the legal require- ments are implemented efficiently. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 57



4.1 Climate action 4.1 Climate action - Our pledge: We are making a contribution to limiting global warming to 1.5℃ - Our targets: To reduce emissions from business operations at Siemens without SHS by 55% by 2025 and by 90% by 2030 - Net Zero operations by 2030 and in our supply chain by 2050 - Our path: Continuous reduction of emissions from business operations, collaboration with suppliers, and a portfolio that helps our customers protect the environment Management approach At Siemens, we recognize the urgency of climate protection. It is our top priority to contribute to the objectives set out in the Paris Agreement, which includes the goal of limiting global warming to 1.5℃ above preindustrial levels. As a global technology company, we acknowledge that our activities along the value chain - including procurement, product design, production, and the use of our products and services - generate greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (here- after CO2e emissions). This is contributing to a global tem- perature increase and other irreversible changes to our planet and ecosystems. The Siemens portfolio is simultaneously supporting the transition to a low-carbon economy. We are doing this by focusing on automation and digitalization, smart infrastruc- ture for buildings with decentralized energy systems and charging solutions, and intelligent transportation solutions. For instance, our energy-efficient products and solutions can support the transition from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources, and our electrification solutions enable renewable grid integration and the electrification of heat and hydrogen. This also creates more business opportunities for Siemens. With global temperatures rising, we are committed to help mitigate climate change. At the same time, Siemens is assessing climate-related risks and opportunities and poten- tial measures for adapting to climate change in order to ensure business continuity and functioning supply chains. Our climate-protection governance and policies Climate-related issues are managed as part of our environmen- tal protection management. 7 HOLISTIC ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION For climate protection, the Environmental Protection depart- ment supports our businesses in their efforts to reduce CO2e emissions in their operations. The Supply Chain Management department helps our business units promote decarboniza- tion in the supply chain at our suppliers and through our material purchases. Our business units are responsible for reducing their respective emissions. The Sustainability department is responsible for the consolidated Siemens GHG reporting and our Net Zero Operations Program and defines the necessary management and GHG reporting approaches. For our approach to and governance for managing climate- related risks and opportunities, please see our reporting on 7 TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES (TCFD). We have pledged to aim to make an important contribution to the decarbonization of the global economy. We aim to reach this goal with the assistance of an appropriate gover- nance structure, including strategy and risk management, and by acting in accordance with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Our commitment to the initiatives RE100 (COMPLETE CONVERSION TO RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY), [ EV100 (CONVERSION OF THE VEHICLE FLEET TO ELECTRIC VEHICLES), and - EP100 (NET ZERO EMISSION BUILDINGS) further supports us in our efforts to achieve our decarbonization targets. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 58



4.1 Climate action Targets Our commitment to climate protection is also reflected in the field of action Decarbonization in our DEGREE sustainability framework. Our 1.5℃ Science-Based Target By joining the Science-Based Targets initiative (SBTi), Siemens has pledged to reduce emissions from its own operations (Scope 1 and 2) by 50% and its value chain (Scope 3) by 15% by 2030 compared to 2019. Our commit- ment to the SBTi is aimed at aligning our business activities with the 1.5°C decarbonization pathway under the terms of recognized climate models to ensure that our greenhouse gas emissions will be consistent with the Paris Climate Agreement's 1.5℃ target. Decarbonization targets for our own operations Our Net Zero 2030 pledge We have expanded our ambitions beyond the scope of our validated Science-Based Target and shortened our timeline for decarbonization: As part of our DEGREE sustainability framework (without Siemens Healthineers), we set a goal for all Siemens production facilities and buildings worldwide and our vehicle fleet to achieve a Net Zero1 carbon footprint by 2030. In effect, this means reducing CO2e Scope 1 and 2 emissions in Siemens' business operations for Siemens without Siemens Healthineers (SHS) by 90% by 2030, compared to 2019. To achieve this target, Siemens has pledged to invest an additional €650 million in its own decarbonization efforts by 2030. Any residual emissions will then be balanced with high-quality carbon offsets that meet established standards. D Decarbonization Progress on DEGREE ambition #1: Net Zero operations by 2030, with 55% emissions reduction by 2025 and 90% by 2030 Compared to fiscal 2022, we reduced our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in 2023 by 32 thousand metric tons of CO2e or 8%. We reduced our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by a total of 50% since fiscal 2019. This reduction is primarily due to the rigorous imple- mentation of a number of measures and initiatives, which are briefly described below. RE100: 80% renewable electricity for Siemens EV100: 11% electric vehicles at Siemens EP100: There are currently 33 Siemens sites with no net CO2e emissions during regular operations Progress FY 19: 737 kt CO2e -50% -55% by 2025 -90% by 2030 Emissions reduction as part of the Net Zero 2030 program (in 1,000 metric tons of CO2e for Siemens without SHS) to 2019 to 2019 &CO2® -50% 737 -55% to 2019 -90% To drive additional transparency on our journey to 2030, we set an ambitious interim reduction target for our business operations at Siemens without SHS of 55% by 2025 com- pared to 2019. 402 370 332 75 -75 By joining the RE100 initiative in 2021, we reinforced our commitment to a transition to 100% renewable energy by 2030 at the latest. As part of our commitment to EV100, we are striving to completely convert our motor vehicle fleet to electric vehicles by 2030. Our EP100 pledge strengthens our commitment to only own or lease buildings that have no net CO2e emissions by 2030. 1 Siemens defines Net Zero as reducing CO2e emissions by 90% and compensating any residual emissions in the Net Zero target year and any CO2e emissions thereafter with high-quality carbon offsets. FY 2019 FY 2022 FY 2023 FY 2025 FY 2030 Emissions Carbon offsets Siemens without SHS SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 59



4.1 Climate action Decarbonization targets for our upstream and downstream value chain Regarding Scope 3 emissions, we are focused in particular on reducing emissions in our supply chain and in the use phase of our products. Therefore, we set the target for Siemens without SHS to reduce the CO2e emissions generated in our supply chain by 20% by 2030 compared to 2020, and over the long term to achieve Net Zero emissions in the supply chain by 2050. This ambition is also part of our DEGREE sustainability framework. More details on our decarbonization targets for the supply chain and DEGREE KPI can be found in 7 SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTICES. As part of our Science-Based Targets, we pledged to reduce our entire Scope 3 emissions, upstream and downstream, by 15% by 2030 compared to 2019. This target also includes the use phase of our products (Scope 3.11 Use of sold products). Decarbonization targets in management compensation As a key element of our management approach, the reduc- tion of CO2e emissions in our operations is embedded in the Long-term Incentive (LTI) compensation component for the Siemens senior management (without SHS). Management compensation incorporates long-term performance incen- tives based on ESG criteria and is defined under Governance in our DEGREE sustainability framework. The assessment is based on the internal ESG/Sustainability index, which includes, among other goals, the reduction of CO2e emis- sions.2 7 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE AND ORGANIZATION Actions and results Transparency on greenhouse gas emissions We report our greenhouse gas emissions based on the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol corporate standard. Direct greenhouse gas emissions from our own operations (Scope 1) and indirect emissions from purchased electricity and district heating (Scope 2) are calculated for all sites. We also report our emissions in our upstream and downstream value chain (Scope 3), including emissions originating in our supply chains and the use of our products. 2 Assessment based on the Siemens internal ESG/sustainability index, which is based on customer satisfaction (Net Promoter Score), CO2 reduction, and digital learning hours. Greenhouse gas emissions1 1 Siemens including SHS. 2 We calculate our emissions from electricity consumption on the basis of the CO2 emission factors of local sites according to the market-based approach. 3 Not part of supply chain emissions reduction. The actions we take within our business processes along with focused actions in our supply chain and expanded value chain are key to achieving our targets. Using renewable energy Even before Siemens joined the RE100 initiative, we worked continuously to increase the share of electricity we obtain from renewable sources. Our goal is to use 100% renewable electricity by 2030. In fiscal 2023, more than 79% of the electricity we purchased consisted of electricity from renew- able sources. As a result, we reduced emissions by a total of 454 thousand metric tons of CO2e per year compared to the average electricity mix. A complete conversion to renewable electricity is not possible yet due to regulatory restrictions in some countries. Through our membership in RE100, we are working toward the amendment of these regulations to make complete conversion a reality. In purchasing renewable SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 60



4.1 Climate action electricity, we follow the purchasing guidelines of the WWF's Next Generation Green Electricity initiative. Siemens has also entered power purchasing agreements (PPA) to support our supply with renewable electricity. For instance, in Kalwa, India, we joined a joint venture that produces renewable electricity using photovoltaic systems. Another PPA with Enovos Energie Deutschland in Germany's South Eifel region will consist of a total of 11 photovoltaic systems (currently under construction) with a total capacity of about 200 GWh a year. Südeifel GmbH & Co KG is respon- sible for the planning, construction, and operation of the systems and for marketing the renewable electricity. Siemens will purchase 39.1 GWh of electricity per year beginning in January of 2024. The use of biogas is another component of our decarboni- zation strategy. This has reduced our annual emissions by 13 thousand metric tons of CO2e compared to the use of conventional natural gas. In the U.S. we've conducted pilot purchases of over 3.6 mil- lion liters of sustainable aviation fuel. Reducing motor fleet emissions We are working to reduce the emissions from our motor vehicle fleet, which comprises around 44,000 vehicles, and are striving to electrify it completely by 2030 as part of our EV100 commitment. In fiscal 2023, these emissions totaled about 210 thousand metric tons of CO2e. We increased the number of electric vehicles to around 4,100 and charging points to around 2,750 in fiscal 2023. In the UK, we have already made a lot of progress in creating an exclusively electric vehicle fleet. As a result, 23% of the company fleet is now all-electric, and electric vehicles accounted for 44% of all new car orders at the end of fiscal 2023. In Germany, our commitment to electrification has seen progress. Of our fleet, over 1,700 vehicles are battery electric vehicles (BEVs). In fiscal 2023, BEVs comprised 37% of all our vehicle orders - a significant increase from the past aver- ages. Initiatives to accelerate electrification, combined with the rollout of special-edition electric models, have led to an additional boost, with BEVs comprising 69% of all new orders from May to the end of September of 2023. Reducing building emissions Regarding building emissions, we are committed to only owning and occupying assets that are net zero carbon in operation by the year 2030 as part of our EP100 pledge. We plan to achieve this goal through various measures, includ- ing building new CO2-neutral buildings, modernizing existing buildings, and leasing office space that produces the lowest possible emissions. Once we have exhausted all possible measures, we plan to purchase high-quality carbon offsets to compensate for the remaining emissions. Today 37 of our locations have no net CO2e emissions during regular operation. We issued a guideline that defines the criteria for the CO2-neutral operation of new buildings and sets maximum permissible emissions in the supply chain and in construction activities. In fiscal 2023, we launched our new SRE3 Green Lease Guideline to improve the ESG performance of all new leases. Following the guideline, the renovation and expansion of our Texas facility is planned to reduce 90% of emissions. In California, a relocation led to using 58% less space and reducing CO2e emissions by 68 metric tons. With our New-Normal Working Model, emissions from the use of our buildings and commuting will be reduced, while emissions from working from home increase. In total, we calculated emissions from category 3.7, Employee Commut- ing, at 105 thousand metric tons of CO2e, while emissions created by working from home amounted to 24 thousand metric tons of CO2e, largely due to using IT equipment. For more details, see 7 WORKING AT SIEMENS. Using an internal CO2e price In the UK and Brazil, we are currently using an internal CO2e price to manage our decarbonization activities. In the UK, we raised the price per ton of CO2e in fiscal 2023 to GBP50 from GBP40 to create a clear pathway to increasing CO2e costs. A major portion of the proceeds is being used to expand the charging infrastructure for electric vehicles at our new office location in Farnborough, UK. In Brazil, a so-called shadow price of US$240 per ton of CO2e was established to support energy efficiency in buildings and factories and, for example, to support electrification of the motor vehicle fleet. 3 Siemens Real Estate. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 61



4.1 Climate action Upstream emissions Our upstream emissions total roughly 11 million metric tons of CO2e and are therefore considerably higher than the emissions from our own business operations. This is because our supply chain operations are typically more energy- intensive than our own operations - primarily because our supply chain processes raw materials. A detailed description of our efforts to reduce CO2e emis- sions in our supply chain is available in 7 SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTICES. CO2e emissions in the use phase of our products During the use phase of our products, the main source of CO2e emissions is electricity consumption. This means that the key strategies for reducing emissions during the product use phase aim at increasing energy efficiency and promoting automation and digitalization. Our strategic focus on energy efficiency, automation, and digitalization in industry, electrification, buildings, and transportation allows us to offer our customers products that are highly efficient, high-quality, and long-lasting. Our efficient electric motors are also an important factor in use- phase emissions. Our Blue GIS portfolio is a prime example of our efforts to reduce emissions. The portfolio combines the advantages of gas-insulated switchgear with climate-friendly technologies. Using a fluorine-gas-free, non-toxic insulating gas reduces the CO2e emissions of medium-voltage switchgear through- out their entire lifespan. Our contribution to climate protection for our customers (customer avoided emissions) To make our portfolio's contribution to decarbonization more transparent, we report the amount of CO2e emissions that our products and solutions avoid compared to reference solutions. Customer avoided emissions represent the differ- ence between the CO2e emissions of a Siemens offering and the CO2e emissions of a baseline or reference scenario. Emissions from the value chain and avoided CO2e emissions at customers (in million t CO2-equivalent) 472.1 Eco, ~41× 189.9 Emissions produced in the use phase of our products will continuously decrease over time due to new product gener- ations and to the ongoing transition to renewable energies in our users' markets. 11.0 0.6 11.6 The use of our products sold in fiscal 2023 will generate 469 million metric tons of CO2e over the entire expected product use phase (Scope 3.11 Use of sold products). We are using a constant emission factor over the anticipated prod- uct use phase. Our scope 3 emissions increased due to an expansion of the reported portfolio as well as increased sales volumes. We use the final product calculation method. If we applied the intermediate approach instead, emissions from the use of our products sold in fiscal 2023 would be consid- erably lower. These emissions are primarily created by the electricity used and the product's lifespan. Upstream emissions Own operations Cradle to gate Use phase and investments Avoided emissions at customers Customer avoided CO2e emissions are widely reported in the market; however, there is currently no universally accepted standard for their calculation. Therefore, approaches and results are often not comparable due to different definitions and product portfolios. Siemens is actively involved in a number of working groups and associations that are working to support the standardization of calculations and reporting of customer-related CO2e emissions: for example, we are involved with the WBCSD and the EU Green Digital Coalition. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 62



4.1 Climate action At Siemens we have developed our own method that meets our standards for high-quality and transparent metrics. We calculate the avoided emissions for all products and services sold and investments made by Siemens in each fiscal year over the course of their entire use phase at our customers. This approach aligns with the accounting principles defined for calculating Scope 3 emissions (Scope 3.11 Use of sold products) in the GHG Protocol. For a detailed description of our methodology for calculating customer avoided emis- sions, please see 7 REPORTING PRINCIPLES FOR CUSTOMER AVOIDED EMISSIONS. In fiscal 2023, we helped our customers avoid 190 million metric tons of CO2e emissions. The Siemens technologies that make the largest contribution to the avoidance of CO2e emissions at our customers are frequency converters, rail- bound passenger and freight transportation, and building systems. When applied alone, this metric does not reflect all of our portfolio's positive impacts on our partners and customers. Software, electrification, and automation technology and other "enabling technologies" play a crucial role in achieving global environmental goals by providing systems that sup- port the transition to a low-carbon economy. For example, solutions from Smart Infrastructure can facilitate the trans- formation to an electrification of the global energy system. Even though they do not show a direct decarbonization impact on the product level, the electrification and automa- tion products sold by Smart Infrastructure in fiscal 2023 contributed to the decarbonization of power generation systems by avoiding 4.6 million metric tons of CO2e emis- sions. The description of our methodology for calculating these "enabling" customer avoided emissions can be found in our 7 REPORTING PRINCIPLES FOR CUSTOMER AVOIDED EMISSIONS. However, because there is no recognized market standard for a calculation methodology to quantify these enabling or indirect decarbonization impacts, we refrain from including the avoided emissions from enabling technologies in our overall customer avoided emissions total of 190 million metric tons of CO2e emissions. Investment-related emissions The financing solutions provided by Siemens Financial Ser- vices (SFS) fund infrastructure projects and technologies that make a contribution to decarbonization. Specifically, SFS provides equity and debt financing solutions to support projects with a total installed capacity of 27,500 MW of wind energy, 14,900 MW of solar energy, and 2,400 MW of other renewable energy production technologies (including battery storage) worldwide. In fiscal 2023, SFS Equity Finance also invested in carbon removal companies to support innovative solutions and technologies that actively remove CO2e from the atmosphere. Where SFS agreed to finance fossil power generation projects in fiscal 2023, its financial contributions corresponded to about 3 million metric tons of CO2e over the expected duration of the financing of these projects (Scope 3.15 investments). Carbon offsets Our internal offsetting policy has established binding guide- lines for procuring carbon offsets. This policy aims to ensure consistency and quality in offset programs. The carbon off- sets derived from projects for removing or avoiding CO2e emissions must meet minimum quality criteria, including external certification, selection based on the Oxford Offset- ting Principles, and internal quality controls. Despite our high standard for all offsetting, physically reducing emissions remains Siemens' top priority. We also do not deduct carbon offsets from our CO2e footprint in order to maintain transpar- ency regarding our emissions. Shaping the climate debate and policy Siemens is part of a number of platforms and initiatives that allow us to participate in the debate on climate-related issues. For example, as part of the UN Global Compact Peer-Learning Group, we are sharing knowledge and lessons learned on various climate-related topics with other companies. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 63



4.1 Climate action Beyond our various measures and activities, Siemens also participates in committees and associations where it advo- cates for more changes in climate policy frameworks in order to support the following activities: -> Accelerating decarbonization in all sectors through efficient energy use and electrification and by increasing the share of energy from renewable sources -> Redesigning energy markets to ensure that adequate investments are made in sustainable, secure, and efficient energy systems -> Driving the development of local energy production from renewable sources, local energy markets, and sector coupling -> Accelerating the digitalization of the energy system to enable the integration of renewable energies, continuous grid optimization, and the integration of prosumers, while guaranteeing grid stability -> Implementing a CO2e price that enables actual emissions- related costs to be integrated into business decision- making. The price should be high enough to trigger a shift to low-carbon technologies in line with the pledges made in the Paris Agreement (COP 21). SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 64



4.2 Conserving resources 4.2 Conserving resources - Assessment of our biodiversity footprint as foundation for further improvements - Accomplished energy reduction as part of our energy efficiency ambition - Implementation of water strategy almost completed Management approach As a company producing a diverse array of products, systems, solutions, and services, and with office locations around the world, we strive to reduce the environmental impacts of our sites through the limited use of resources. Energy is an important resource in production, and its usage reduction is a key strategy for decarbonization. While we aim to obtain all our electricity from renewable sources, we recognize that even the generation of renewable electricity, for example, through wind turbines or photovoltaics, can have negative impacts on the environment because these systems must be manufactured, they change the local landscape when in operation, and they must be disposed of at the end of their lifecycle. The emission of air pollutants like volatile organic com- pounds (VOCs) and ozone-depleting substances (ODSs) can lead to ground-level ozone and have adverse health effects, and some are potent greenhouse gases. While many types of waste can be recycled or reprocessed in a functioning circular economy, the production of landfill waste contributes to land use and greenhouse gas emissions, and it influences local biodiversity and can cause health problems for people and ecosystems. By fostering recycling, Siemens can also reduce potential impacts in the down- stream value chain like marine plastics pollution and in the upstream value chain from sourcing primary raw materials. Water use in water-stressed areas can exacerbate water scarcity, degrade water quality, and harm aquatic habitats and biodiversity. Lastly, biodiversity loss is comparable to the threat of climate change, because it can disrupt the functioning of ecosystems, creating far-reaching impacts on people's health and liveli- hoods. Our governance and policies for conserving resources To mitigate these impacts, we made the responsible use of limited resources an integral part of environmental protection at Siemens. Information on our holistic environmental pro- tection governance and policies can be found in 7 HOLISTIC ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION. Targets Our commitment to conserving resources is also reflected in the field of action Resource efficiency in our DEGREE sustain- ability framework. The component Efficient Own Operations of our Eco Effi- ciency @ Siemens program aims to reduce the environmental impact of our sites through dematerialization and circular economy principles. We focus on improving our energy effi- ciency and reducing the environmental impact of the waste we generate. When it comes to environmentally responsible energy use, we focus on reducing emissions from power generation in addition to minimizing energy consumption itself. As part of our commitment, we aim to improve our overall energy efficiency by 10% by 2030 compared to 2021.1 Building on the success of previous reduction initiatives, our target is to achieve a 50% reduction in landfill waste by 2025 compared to fiscal 2021 as we progress toward zero landfill waste by 2030. Additionally, we want to continuously increase our material recycling rate by 2030.1 SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 65 1 Siemens without SHS.



4.2 Conserving resources In addition to our Eco Efficiency @ Siemens program, we actively pursue resource conservation through other initia- tives. We have implemented initiatives to manage our envi- ronmental impact in areas like water, air pollutants, and biodiversity. Currently, we have specific targets for water and air pollutants at some of our sites. The global goals of the Eco Efficiency @ Siemens program are converted into local targets and measures implemented by our sites' environmental and energy management systems. R Resource efficiency Progress on DEGREE ambition #8: Circularity through waste-to-landfill reduction of 50% by 2025 and toward zero landfill waste by 2030 Landfill waste is the type of waste with the greatest environmental impact. That's why we want to reduce both our hazardous and our non-hazardous landfill waste by 50% by fiscal 2025 compared to fiscal 2021 and have included these ambitions in our DEGREE sustainability framework as well as the Eco Efficiency @ Siemens program. With the aid of worldwide work- shops, we have developed and implemented measures to improve our waste management. Compared to the base year 2021, we reduced our landfill waste by 15%. Progress FY 21: 0% -15% -50% by 2025 ~- 100% by 2030 Siemens without SHS Actions and results Energy management and energy efficiency For energy-intensive units, we adhere to the ISO 50001 standard, which aims to ensure the effective management of energy consumption in our operations. Currently, 45 Siemens sites have implemented energy management systems com- pliant with ISO 50001. This also requires our sites to conduct regular internal and external energy and carbon audits. To calculate energy efficiency, we analyze our energy con- sumption in relation to sales development. Due to reduced energy usage by 9.1% and a growth in sales, we increased our energy efficiency by 39%1 in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2021. 39%1 improvement of efficiency in primary & secondary energy use compared to 2021 When looking at Siemens' total energy consumption, we differentiate between primary and secondary energy. Our primary energy consumption declined 16.5% in fiscal 2023. Our consumption of natural gas and liquid petroleum gas declined 22.2% compared to the previous fiscal year. With continuing gas shortages, this was a special focus for Siemens in fiscal 2023. To determine energy consumption by our company vehicles, we calculated the consumption of all cars used by employees and for services and our trucks. In fiscal 2023, the company fleet consumed about 2,894 thou- sand gigajoules of fuel, which is a 1% decrease from the previous fiscal year. Secondary energy consumption means the purchase of electricity and district heating at our sites worldwide. Over- all, the consumption of secondary energy decreased by 2.8% compared to the previous year. Our electricity consumption now stands at 5,586 thousand gigajoules. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 66 1 Siemens without SHS.



4.2 Conserving resources Primary energy (1,000 gigajoules) Natural gas/ liquid petroleum gas Fuel oil, gasoline / diesel 2,927 FY 2022 > 2,277 FY 2023 63 < 232 FY 2022 FY 2023 Total 3,010 > FY 2022 2,513 FY 2023 Emission of air pollutants We take a comprehensive approach to air pollution by analyzing local emissions at our various office and production facilities around the world. We also pay close attention to emissions from volatile organic compounds (VOC), pollutants from combustion processes, and where they are still present, ozone-depleting substances (ODS) at our environmentally relevant sites. Based on our internal environmental standards, these principles and procedures are implemented on a man- datory basis. The mandatory environmental management system for our sites includes the requirement to establish targets and measures for reducing air pollutants, and where applicable, to address and mitigate their impact. Our Environmental Protection Standards include a commit- ment to phase out ODSs. In fiscal 2023, we held VOC and ODS training workshops to increase awareness of the harmful effects of air pollutants, improve the data quality at sites, and provide recommendations for the reduction and phase- out of VOCs and ODSs. Secondary energy (1,000 gigajoules) 1 sss Electricity District heating 5,629 > 5,586 FY 2022 FY 2023 1,163 > 1,016 FY 2022 FY 2023 Total 6,792 FY 2022 > 6,602 FY 2023 Atmospheric pollutant emissions 1 The R11 equivalent is a measure of ozone depletion potential We reduced our VOC emissions by another 9% from the previous year to 250 metric tons in fiscal 2023. Total ODS emissions increased slightly, amounting to 0.044 metric tons in fiscal 2023. We determined the quantity of nitrogen oxides in our relevant thermal processes with the aid of computational procedures, assuming typical combustion conditions. For fiscal 2023, this yielded a figure of 53 metric tons for our environmen- tally relevant sites compared to 58 metric tons the year before. This figure includes nitrogen oxides that are released by burning the fuels listed under primary energy. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 67



4.2 Conserving resources Efficient waste management The environmental relevance of waste depends on the type of waste and the method used for its disposal. To reduce hazardous waste, we work on increasing our material recy- cling rate and reducing our landfill waste. To enhance material efficiency in our production processes, we imple- ment practices like regrinding sprue parts at plastic molding sites. To support resource efficiency in production, our sites track waste data using a standard process that undergoes regular audits that aim to ensure accuracy and compliance. In addi- tion, we distinguish between hazardous and non-hazardous waste. The treatment of hazardous and non-hazardous waste is further subdivided into material recycling, thermal recovery, thermal disposal, and landfill. Waste flows from construction or demolition work are reported separately, because these waste categories are created independent of production. We then go beyond the monitoring of our own activities to analyze the waste generated throughout our upstream supply chain. The volume of non-hazardous waste generated by Siemens' own operations declined by 4% compared to the previous fiscal year, whereas the volume of hazardous waste decreased in the same period by 8%. Construction waste increased by 88% in fiscal 2023, mainly driven by the con- struction site at our Campus in Erlangen. Compared to fiscal 2022, the total waste volume increased by 2% in fiscal 2023. Waste (in 1,000 metric tons) 34 Construction waste 215 Non-hazardous waste 13 Hazardous waste In fiscal 2023, the share of material recycling in our total waste stream (excluding construction waste) remained at 81%. Material Recycling (in %) FY 2022 81 Total FY 2023 81 Total Share of material recycling in total waste1 1 Excluding construction waste. Water use and risk analysis Water is one of humanity's most important resources. For this reason, Siemens has been analyzing water scarcity, water pollution, local fire risks, climate change, and flooding and precipitation patterns at our sites for several years. We consider these analyses in our business decisions: for exam- ple, when we select the location for a new site or implement precautionary measures. We establish water targets at multiple sites to account for the specific local environment and to drive effective mitigation measures. At the corporate level, we have implemented a defined water strategy, and have conducted risk assessments to shape local water targets. Our individual sites then implement their own water initia- tives in alignment with these targets. For instance, by greening the roofs of our Siemens Campus in Erlangen, we return rainwater back into the natural water cycle through evaporation, rather than disposing of it in the sewer system. The aim of our water strategy is to minimize the adverse local effects of our water consumption and use. In fiscal 2022, we expanded the analysis of our water-related risks to include our supply chain. Based on this analysis, we derived further measures for sustainable water use. Siemens India as an example achieved sustainable water management by driving various measures, including utilizing water-efficient SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 68



4.2 Conserving resources appliances, installing rainwater harvesting systems at four major factory locations, and building water reclamation facilities (zero liquid discharge facilities). These measures enable us to reduce fresh water consumption by, among other things, utilizing treated water for landscaping and toilet flushing. Our water risk analysis begins with an assessment of our environmentally relevant sites using the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas from the World Resources Institute (WRI). With the aid of an internal analytical tool, Siemens assesses local-level risks resulting from our sites' activities, and then assesses them in relation to regional water risks. Sites with a high-risk assessment need to define targets to reduce the level of risk. In fiscal 2023, 96% of our sites implemented this water strategy. 96% of our sites have implemented a water strategy Our water strategy provides foundational support to our compliance with the Do No Significant Harm (DNSH) criteria for sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources in the EU Taxonomy. In fiscal 2023, our total water withdrawal was 14.26 million m3. The largest share of our water use is for cooling processes. These processes leave the water's chemical quality largely unchanged, so that the water can be returned directly to the receiving water body or groundwater. In fiscal 2023, our water discharge was 13.56 million m3. Water consumption is a water substream with a major envi- ronmental impact, because the water is no longer available for the ecosystem's use. Siemens' water consumption is mostly linked to evaporation and is comparably small, with just 0.51 million m3 of total water consumption. Of this amount, 0.07 million m3 are accounted for by water con- sumption in water stress areas. Water discharge (in million m3) 1.03 Surface water FY 2023 13.56 total 9.20 Groundwater 3.33 3rd-party water Initiatives for greater biodiversity The aim of Siemens' environmental management system is to work to preserve a diverse natural environment. Biodiversity and conservation are defined in our environmental policies as environmental aspects at the company level that need to be assessed locally. The objective is to ensure that the business activities at our factories and offices do not reduce species diversity beyond an unavoidable minimum. This approach is part of our location planning, which also includes initiatives to foster biodiversity by creating habitats that provide both shelter and food. Examples range from planting native vegeta- tion, creating homes for insects, birds, mammals, reptiles, and amphibians to taking inventories of the local biodiversity at our sites. Two locations in Germany are using sheep as "lawn-mowers" to reduce our impact on flora and fauna by maintaining green spaces. Siemens employees are actively engaged in protecting and increasing biodiversity at their locations: for example, by volunteering for tree-planting campaigns and participating in cleanup events. For our Siemens Campus in Erlangen, we have developed a comprehensive biodiversity concept that enables us to preserve existing trees, plant native fruit trees, and create suitable nesting habitats for many species, among other initiatives. To further develop our approach to biodiversity, we have entered a strategic partnership with The Biodiversity Consul- tancy to help Siemens scientifically assess our biodiversity footprint. This assessment was conducted in fiscal 2023 and covered the biodiversity impacts of our own operations and those of our upstream value chain: for instance, impacts of the raw materials we purchase. The assessment and the transparency we acquired on our biodiversity footprint are an important step toward developing our biodiversity strategy. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 69



4.2 Conserving resources Incidents relevant to the environment and fines Siemens uses a worldwide reporting system to document environmental incidents. In fiscal 2023, we recorded no significant incidents resulting in fines over US$10,000. We recorded 14 minor environmental spills or gas losses with low impacts. They involved spills of chemicals, diesel, hydraulic oils, or resins and losses of coolant gases. Stakeholder involvement in conserving resources Stakeholder engagement is a crucial aspect of our environ- mental protection efforts, and we utilize various channels to engage in regular stakeholder dialogs, including with local communities. One of the communications channels used is our internal Environmental Protection Newsletter, where we share updates, achievements, and upcoming initiatives related to environmental protection. We also promote the use of best practices and knowledge transfers within Siemens through global workshops in order to facilitate our efforts in this regard. For more information about the methods used, environmental reporting, and environmental data collection, see 7 REPORTING METHODOLOGY. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 70



4.3 Product stewardship 4.3 Product stewardship - Increase relevant product families for Robust Eco Design - Increase coverage rate of Robust Eco Design approach across relevant product families. - Significant increase of lifecycle assessment (LCAs) Management approach At Siemens, we are aware that product design has far-reaching effects on nature and our environment. As a market leader and technology pioneer in many fields, we take a keen interest in the long-term impacts of our portfolio. Ensuring the environmental compatibility of our products, systems, solutions, and services is a key priority. Extracting and processing finite resources contribute to as much as 90% of global biodiversity loss and approximately 50% of global CO2e emissions1. Both of these consequences can impact the composition, resilience, productivity, and carrying capacity of natural and managed ecosystems as well as people's livelihoods. In 2023, the global economy was only 7.2% circular, meaning that just 7.2% of all material inputs into the economy were secondary materials.2 As such, we aim to reduce the environmental impact of our products, systems, solutions, and services as early as the design phase and minimize the need for raw material extraction. Our Ecodesign approach considers relevant eco- logical factors during product planning and design, because this phase determines up to 80% of a product's lifecycle environmental impact.3 We also address these challenges through various initiatives: for instance, our Tech for Sus- tainability Bootcamp 2023, Ecodesign learning programs, and our Sustainability Business portfolio. 1 IRP (2019). Global Resources Outlook 2019: Natural Resources for the Future We Want. (Global Resources Outlook | Resource Panel). 2 https://www.circularity-gap.world/2023. 3 Ecodesign your future: How Ecodesign can help the environment by making products smarter. Publications Office of the European Union (https://op.europa.eu/en/ publication-detail/-/publication/4d42d597-4f92-4498-8e1d-857cc157e6db). We focus on resource efficiency over a product's entire lifecycle Our governance and policies for product stewardship The Environmental Protection department is responsible for planning, preparing, organizing, and implementing rules and regulations for product stewardship. It aims to ensure consistency, transparency, implementation, and compliance with regulatory frameworks within its areas of responsibility and reviews their effectiveness. With our Ecodesign approach, we aim to contribute to climate protection at our customer sites and increase dematerialization through our circularity approach and our digital portfolio elements. 7 CLIMATE ACTION 7 COMPANY PROFILE Fundamental Ecodesign approaches at Siemens include increased resource efficiency and decarbonization during production, higher productivity and efficiency during use, and product designs that support circularity. In accordance with the international standards IEC 62430 Environmentally Conscious Design for Electrical and Electronic Products, ISO 14006, and ISO 14009, Siemens applies the Robust Eco Design (RED) approach. The Ecodesign Appendix, which is a mandatory component of Siemens' Environmental Protection Standard, provides a framework for assessing and determining a product's environmental impact throughout all phases of its lifecycle. It also provides a framework for the environmen- tally compatible design of products, systems, solutions, and SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 71



4.3 Product stewardship services. The implementation of this standard is the respon- sibility of the heads of Siemens' operating units and is an integral part of the company's annual environmental review according to ISO 14001. Targets Our Ecodesign approach is also embedded in the field of action Resource efficiency in our DEGREE sustainability framework. The main objective is to introduce methods and rules for circularity and dematerialization along the entire value chain. R Resource efficiency Progress on DEGREE ambition #6: Next-level Robust Eco Design for 100% of relevant Siemens product families by 2030 The quota of Robust Eco Design implementation for the relevant portfolio elements currently stands at 51% compared to 35% in the year 2022. Only when the rate of implementation reaches 100% can it be assumed that all relevant product families have com- pleted each individual phase for Robust Eco Design. Progress FY 21: 26% 51% 100% by 2030 Siemens without SHS Applying RED in all relevant product families Our aim has been to intensify the use of lifecycle assess- ments (LCAs) and environmental product declarations (EPDs), which will allow us to identify environmentally compatible design alternatives that take circularity into account and can be integrated into product specifications. Our ambition is to apply the RED approach to all relevant4 4 Relevant: All products, systems, solutions, and services whose sales are not negligible, that will not be discontinued in the foreseeable future, or are not part of a confirmed spin-off. products, systems, solutions, and services by 2030. In fiscal 2023, 65% of our third-party revenue was defined as rele- vant for our RED approach, compared to 57% in fiscal 2022. In addition, our goal is to increase the number of LCAs and EPDs available. As a result, we are continuously expanding our database for monitoring and communicating the envi- ronmental performance of our products, systems, solutions, and services. R Resource efficiency Progress on DEGREE ambition #7: Natural resource decoupling through increased purchase of secondary materials for metals and resins We want to increase the procurement of secondary materials for metals and resins and implement a circular economy. In fiscal 2023, we purchased 35% of the metals - primarily iron, copper and aluminum used in the manufacture of our products - from recycled sources. This percentage is the weighted average of the secondary material proportions of the three metals based on average regional or global values from literature values and supplier informa- tion. Last year this share was 34%. Moreover, in fiscal 2023 we sourced < 1% of the resins used to make our products from recycled sources. We continue to work with the recycling chains for technical plastics currently being established, and on further developing product specifications as well as material standards in this context. Progress Metals 35% Resins <1% Siemens without SHS SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 72



4.3 Product stewardship Expanding our use of secondary materials We want to proportionately increase our procurement of secondary metal and resins by 2030. To achieve this, we are concentrating on suppliers of raw materials and semifinished products that can be directly influenced by our purchasing specifications. Limiting declarable substances At the same time, we want to continuously reduce declarable substances in all our products. Measurements and more details can be found in the section "Actions and results." Actions and results Our program Eco Efficiency @ Siemens has defined special environmental protection priorities in the categories Robust Eco Design and Clean Supply Chain. Robust Eco Design for future-fit product families RED focuses on the systematic application of Ecodesign to all lifecycle phases. The aim is to identify strategies that make a product's life as environmentally compatible as possible and that allow all materials to be recycled. At the same time, material and energy flows and losses will be reduced to the necessary minimum. RED measures The RED approach is designed to identify potential measures for improving the environmental impacts of our products, systems, solutions, and services, for example, to: -> Improve product resource efficiency by reducing material inputs or replacing physical components and functions with digital solutions, otherwise known as dematerialization -> Optimize product energy efficiency by minimizing energy consumption during use and designing environmentally sound operation modes -> Enhance product durability and reliability by selecting materials that help extend a product's lifespan and main- tain its functionality -> Extend the lifespan of our products, systems, solutions, and services through proper maintenance, repairability, and upgradability -> Maximize the value and benefit from our products, systems, solutions, and service by implementing efficient return logistics systems, promoting take-back initiatives, and adopting As-a-Service business models. RED phases The RED approach involves three phases: -> Phase 1 - Application perspective The goal and scope of requirements for relevant product families are defined, and relevant product families are analyzed in terms of the environmental parameters required by markets and customers. They are then catego- rized based on their underlying technology and design specifications so they will meet the needs and demands of stakeholders. -> Phase 2 - Solid foundation The environmental impacts of product families are quan- tified using LCAs based on ISO standards. EPDs are used to communicate a product's environmental impact and other environmental indicators that measure circularity. This phase provides the basis for the determination of environmental footprint improvement measures. For details, see our LCA EPD BROCHURE -> Phase 3 - Dematerialization The preceding assessments are conducted to identify environmental design alternatives, the results are inter- preted, and where feasible they are incorporated into environmentally optimized design specifications. Typical Ecodesign strategies applied in this phase include increas- ing the use of secondary materials (recyclates), product repairability, upgradeability, or suitability for refurbishment, remanufacturing, and recycling, and the evaluation of new business models that enable take-backs after a product's use. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 73



4.3 Product stewardship Siemens' vision of an almost completely closed lifecycle when applying our RED approach Production Use remanufacturing Refurbishment and Ecodesign Repair and reuse Raw material extraction Manufacturing Recycling Implementation rate of our RED approach In line with our DEGREE ambition, we consistently monitor our progress with implementing the Siemens RED approach across the relevant product families in our business units, excluding Siemens Healthineers (SHS), and supporting busi- nesses such as Real Estate. To do this, we classify products, systems, solutions, and ser- vices into groups that share similar technical characteristics, and we evaluate them based on RED criteria. The rate of implementation of the individual RED phases is then assessed in each of the relevant product families. If a criterion in a RED phase has been met, all the revenue generated by the product is considered RED-conformant. If a criterion is only partially met, 25% of the revenue is considered RED-conformant. If a criterion is not met, the corresponding revenue is disregarded. The RED implementation rate for each product family is then determined by averaging the fulfillment levels of the individual RED criteria. We calculate the revenue share of our RED-con- formant portfolio by multiplying the RED implementation rate with the revenues of the given product families. Lastly, Waste recovery the implementation rate KPI for RED is calculated as the ratio of the total RED-conformant revenue share to the total reve- nues of the relevant product families. The RED approach allows us to use good practice results to identify practical Ecodesign measures in a product family that can then be used in other product families. Scheduled community meetings of product-related environmental protection practitioners facilitate this good practice knowledge-sharing across our business units. We also host Ecodesign case studies on an internal wiki to facilitate knowledge-sharing between our business units. Focus in fiscal 2023 As a critical precondition for implementing our RED approach, we worked on developing automated solutions to calculate LCAs and generate EPDs in fiscal 2023. This aims to facilitate Ecodesign comparisons and the systematic use of LCAs and EPDs at Siemens. We also published an INTERNAL ON ECODESIGN to ensure alignment, increase transparency, and accelerate knowledge generation on Ecodesign. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 74



4.3 Product stewardship Clean Supply Chain: Using secondary materials to decouple natural resource use Building on the RED phase dematerialization, the Clean Supply Chain category in the Eco Efficiency @ Siemens program maps our path to decoupling natural resource use from our economic growth. In fiscal 2023, we emphasized making a continuous material change from plastics made from fossil fuels to sustainable and secondary thermoplastics. For example, we introduced a sustainable polyamide 6 composite with a recycling con- tent of 25% to 75% that engineers can apply in their designs. This can lead to a reduction of the product carbon footprint of 10% to 35%, depending on the application. We also devel- oped an internal standard for sustainable plastics and using of biobased resins made from waste. Risk-aware handling of declarable substances Another essential aspect of product stewardship is the responsible handling of substances that are potentially haz- ardous for the environment or health, like those regulated by the EU REACH regulation. We modify internal IT procedures and material compliance processes with the aim of making the use of these substances safer. We are also working pro- actively to substitute and reduce them wherever we can. We work to continuously increase the utilization of the digital industrial substance database BOMcheck by our suppliers. We comply fully with the declaration requirements of inter- national legislation and IEC 62474, and we are constantly optimizing our interfaces and automated workflows. Currently, up to 50% of our revenue (Siemens without SHS) comes from products, systems, solutions, and services that contain substances or groups of substances regulated by IEC 62474. We are continuously seeking ways to replace these substances whenever technically possible and reason- able. By systematically applying our approaches to environmen- tally compatible product, system, solution, and service design and closely collaborating with our business partners, we intend to comprehensively support the replacement of declarable substances and decouple economic development from resource consumption. Training and stakeholder involvement in product stewardship We actively involve our customers in our Ecodesign approaches. Our business units reach out to customers to discover their specific requirements for Ecodesign measures and to get feedback on measures already implemented. Regular workshops with selected customers like wholesalers are conducted to poll their opinions on required or performed Ecodesign measures. Since fiscal 2022, the two-part Circular Design learning pro- gram has been available online to all Siemens employees. In addition, we developed the Leading in Sustainability as part of the Top Management Leadership Program, a learning program for our leaders with also a focus on the circular economy. We maintain internal stakeholder engagement and raise awareness with measures like environmental protection newsletters and environmental information campaigns. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 75



4.4 EU taxonomy 4.4 EU Taxonomy The information for Siemens' EU Taxonomy reporting accord- ing to article 8 of the EU regulation (EU) 2020/852 and associated delegated acts is disclosed in its Combined Man- agement Report - the following chapter provides further information. The EU Taxonomy regulation was introduced to propose a framework to facilitate sustainable investment as part of EU's efforts to implement the European Green Deal. It is a key element of the European Commission's action plan to achieve the EU's ambitious goal of carbon neutrality by 2050 by redirecting capital flows towards sustainable activities and help navigate transition to a low carbon economy. The Taxonomy is a classification system which aims to identify if a company's activities are considered as environmentally sustainable. Siemens supports the EU agenda's general objectives of carbon neutrality by 2050 and the direction of capital flows towards sustainable activities. Siemens also supports the EU Taxonomy by improving transparency helping scale up sustainable investment and achieving the Union's decarbon- ization and environmental objectives. EU Taxonomy at a glance The EU Taxonomy's classification system defines economic activities as environmentally sustainable based on their rele- vance to one of the following six environmental objectives and their fulfilment of predetermined criteria: I. Climate change mitigation II. Climate change adaptation III. Sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources IV. Transition to a circular economy V. Pollution prevention and control VI. Protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems For each environmental objective, a catalog of relevant economic activities has been defined. When a business activity meets the definition of an economic activity, it is referred to as Taxonomy-eligible. EU Taxonomy alignment then requires the fulfillment of both the criteria for Substan- tial Contribution (SC) and the criteria for Do No Significant Harm (DNSH), together called Technical Screening Criteria (TSC). Moreover, the company involved must observe Mini- mum Safeguards (MS), e.g., compliance with human rights principles. The EU Taxonomy's catalog of economic activities includes business activities with the most potential for contributing to the six defined environmental objectives. If a business activ- ity does not fall within the scope of the EU Taxonomy, it does not give an indication that such businesses could not be sustainable. For the reporting year 2023, EU Taxonomy reporting is limited to the first two environmental objectives (climate change mitigation and climate change adaptation). With expansion of the criteria on all six environmental objec- tives for fiscal 2024, we expect an increased EU Taxonomy coverage for our portfolio in the next year. EU Taxonomy in the context of our Industrial Business Siemens' Industrial Business, which includes Digital Indus- tries, Smart Infrastructure, Siemens Mobility, and Siemens Healthineers, is developing a wide range of solutions for a path to a sustainable future. Digital Industries (DI) offers a comprehensive portfolio of products, services and solutions for automation and soft- ware for the discrete and process industries. It enables customers to optimize their entire value chain from product design, development, and production facility modeling to production operation and after-sales service. The Digital Industry portfolio enhances efficiency, conserves resources, and reduces greenhouse gas emissions. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 76



4.4 EU taxonomy The EU Taxonomy's current eligibility rules for reporting on climate change mitigation and adaption cover the Digital Industries portfolio to a limited extent only. With the appli- cation of the four new environmental objectives for fiscal 2024 and amendments to existing objectives, an increased coverage of business activities is expected. The Smart Infrastructure (SI) portfolio includes a wide range of products, services, solutions, and software for all aspects of grid management, electrical products, building automation, fire protection and security, e-mobility charging infrastructure, and energy efficiency. It offers smart connections for energy systems, buildings, and industries. An important portion of this portfolio is devoted to integrating renewable energy into the power grid, increasing electromo- bility, enhancing energy efficiency in buildings, and making the measurement of infrastructure more transparent using digital tools and data management solutions. Smart Infra- structure contributes to electrification with a broad portfolio of low- and medium-voltage power distribution and electrical installation equipment. The Smart Infrastructure portfolio supports driving decarbonization, resource efficiency, and the people-centricity of energy systems, buildings, and industries by connecting the real and digital worlds. A material portion of the Smart Infrastructure portfolio is eligible for climate objective-related EU Taxonomy reporting, especially energy-efficient equipment for buildings and ser- vices for energy performance of buildings. With the addition of more activities for climate change mitigation and for the other environmental objectives, we expect an increased coverage of our business activities for fiscal 2024. Siemens Mobility (SMO) combines all Siemens businesses in the area of rail passenger and freight transportation. The portfolio includes products and solutions related to rolling stock (like trains and locomotives), rail infrastructure (includ- ing rail automation and electrification), and the service business, e.g., maintenance and digital services. Its offerings comprise software solutions, like train planning systems, Mobility-as-a-Service (Maas), reservation management and ticketing, and a turnkey business that bundles consulting, planning, financing, constructing, servicing, and operating of complete mobility systems. Siemens Mobility enables transportation operators around the world to make their trains and infrastructure smart and electrified, and contributes to efficient, low-carbon transpor- tation. Leveraging the advantages of digitalization, it helps increase sustainable value creation throughout the entire lifecycle, improve passenger comfort, deliver 100% system availability, and maximize network capacity. The Siemens Mobility portfolio is almost fully eligible, contributing to climate change mitigation through manufac- turing of low-carbon technologies for transportation, and providing infrastructure for rail transportation and infra- structure enabling public transport. Siemens Healthineers (SHS) is a global provider of healthcare products, solutions, and services with holistic system com- petence. The portfolio serves clinical decision-making and treatment pathways definition - from in vitro and in vivo diagnostics to image-guided therapy and innovative cancer treatment. The comprehensive portfolio supports customers along the entire care continuum, from prevention and early detection through to diagnosis, treatment, and follow-up care. Siemens Healthineers concluded in its analysis of contributing activities, that the current climate-related objectives are not applicable to manufacturing of medical products, which is Siemens Healthineers' primary activity. Taxonomy-relevant capital expenditures are for the most part reported under selected economic activities referring to construction and real estate. With the release of the four new environmental objectives, Siemens Healthineers expects an increased coverage of its economic activities. Eligibility assessment at Siemens The purpose of the eligibility assessment is to determine if Siemens' business activities fit the description of one of the economic activities specified by the EU Taxonomy. If a Siemens business activity matches, it is then classified as "eligible". A business activity that is "non-eligible" is not within the scope of the EU Taxonomy reporting. The eligibility assessments were conducted decentrally in the businesses in an interdisciplinary manner involving experts, for instance from technical, strategy, or sustainability departments. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 77



4.4 EU taxonomy For fiscal 2023, Siemens' Industrial Business reported its Taxonomy-eligible revenue shares under the following EU Taxonomy activities of climate change mitigation: Alignment assessment at Siemens In the next step, Siemens' Taxonomy-eligible activities were evaluated against the technical screening criteria for Sub- stantial Contribution (SC) and Do No Significant Harm (DNSH) according to the Delegated Acts. Siemens also needed to prove its compliance with Minimum Safeguards: namely, on human rights and good business conduct rules. Substantial Contribution (SC): Following the eligibility assessment, the alignment of all eligible business activities with the SC criteria outlined in the respective Delegated Acts was assessed. This was conducted and documented at the highest appropriate reporting hierarchy level, such as business segment, product family or project level - depending on the relevant SC criteria and the respective business activity. Do No Significant Harm (DNSH): Once a business activity demonstrated a SC, its compliance with the DNSH criteria was assessed. Based on the specific regulatory requirements outlined in the Delegated Acts, the assessment was con- ducted by technical experts on the product, site, project and/ or supplier levels. Minimum Safeguards (MS): An additional requirement for EU Taxonomy alignment is compliance with MS as outlined in Article 18 of the EU Taxonomy Regulation. The MS criteria require business activities to be compliant with the following regulations: -> OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises; -> UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, including the principles and rights set out in the eight core conventions identified in the International Labor Organization's (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Rights and Principles at Work, -> The International Bill of Human Rights. Based on its implemented group-wide structures on risk analysis, corporate guidelines and due diligence processes and mechanisms, Siemens is fulfilling the MS requirements. For fiscal 2023, Siemens' Industrial Business reported Taxonomy-aligned revenue shares under the following EU Taxonomy activities of Climate change mitigation: SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 78



4.4 EU taxonomy KPI results for the reporting year The key performance indicators in this section were deter- mined based on Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178 in conjunction with the International Financial Reporting Standards applicable to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Based on the eligibility and alignment assess- ments described above, the baseline values for revenue, capital expenditures (CapEx), and operating expenditures (OpEx) were analyzed and, if applicable, mapped to the respective EU Taxonomy activities. Allocations were also applied based on eligible and/or aligned revenue in order to link capital expenditures and operating expenditures to the respective activities. Siemens implemented a supporting IT tool for the EU Taxonomy technical eligibility and alignment assessments and associated documentation. To avoid double counting, the mapping was consistently made to only one economic activity. Revenue KPI The revenue KPI shows the ratio of revenue from Taxonomy- eligible and/or aligned economic activities to the total revenue in the Consolidated Statements of Income for the reporting year. Based on an assessment of the Siemens business port- folio, Taxonomy-eligible revenue accounted for 20.3% and Taxonomy-aligned revenue for 16.5% of total revenue. This translates into €15.7 billion in Taxonomy-eligible revenue and €12.8 billion in aligned revenue. Taxonomy-eligible and aligned economic activities were primarily driven by the (i) Manufacture of low-carbon tech- nologies for transport (Climate Change Mitigation, CCM 3.3), (ii) rail transportation infrastructure (CCM 6.14), (iii) Infrastructure enabling low-carbon road transport and public transport (CCM 6.15), all associated with Mobility busi- nesses, as well as (iv) energy-efficient building technologies (CCM 3.5) and (v) services for energy-efficient building technologies (CCM 7.5), both related to Smart Infrastructure businesses. The difference between Taxonomy-eligible revenue and Taxonomy-aligned revenue is mainly due to DNSH criteria related to pollution prevention as part of Appendix C, which go beyond existing national regulation. This is mainly because additionally required documentation is not com- pletely available yet. Capital expenditures KPI The CapEx KPI shows the ratio of CapEx from Taxonomy- eligible and/or aligned economic activities to the total CapEx, reflecting additions (including additions from business combinations) to other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment in accordance with Note 13 to the Consoli- dated Financial Statements. In the reporting year, 34.5% (€1.3 billion) of Siemens' CapEx were eligible, and 12.2% (€0.5 billion) were aligned. The aligned CapEx is composed as follows: a majority of €0.4 billion is related to additions to property, plant and equipment, the remainder pertains to internally generated intangible assets and capitalized right- of-use assets. This aligned CapEx includes €116 million related to a CapEx plan, associated with building projects to be finalized by fiscal 2028, summing up to a planned total volume of €1.4 billion (capitalizable and non-capitalizable costs). The buildings are designed to minimize energy use and carbon emissions (CCM 7.7). Acquisition and ownership of buildings (CCM 7.7) related to Siemens' real estate portfolio represents the largest portion in overall CapEx eligibility. The difference between Taxonomy- eligible CapEx and Taxonomy-aligned CapEx is impacted by (i) only partial availability of information on energy perfor- mance certificates for our global portfolio and (ii) energy certificates below the required threshold defined in the Substantial Contribution criteria for the energy efficiency of buildings. Operating expenditures KPI The OpEx KPI shows the ratio of OpEx from Taxonomy- eligible and/or aligned economic activities to total OpEx. The total OpEx comprises direct non-capitalized costs related to research and development, building renovation measures, short-term leases, maintenance and repairs, and any other direct expenditures relating to the day-to-day servicing of assets of property, plant, and equipment per Annex I of the Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178. 12.4% (€0.9 billion) of Siemens' OpEx were eligible and 8.2% (€0.6 billion) were aligned. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 79



4.4 EU taxonomy The majority of eligible and/or aligned expenditures relate to processes and assets associated with the economic activities described for the revenue KPI: (i) Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for transport (CCM 3.3) and (ii) rail transportation infrastructure (CCM 6.14). These two activities account for half of eligible OpEx and the majority of aligned OpEx. This aligned OpEx includes €3 million related to a CapEx plan, associated with building projects to be finalized by fiscal 2028, summing up to a planned total volume of €1.4 billion (capitalizable and non-capitalizable costs). The buildings are designed to minimize energy use and carbon emissions (CCM 7.7). Corresponding to revenue, the difference between Taxonomy- eligible OpEx and Taxonomy-aligned OpEx relates mainly to the documentation of DNSH criteria for pollution prevention (Appendix C). SIEMENS FINANCIAL REPORT FOR FISCAL 2023, COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 80



Pages 81 - 105 Social Contribution to people and society Equity Foster diversity, inclusion, and community develop- ment to create a sense of belonging Our key ambitions1 -> 30% female share in top management by 2025 -> Access to employee share plans: maintain high level and expand globally to up to 100% by 20252 -> Global commitment to the New Normal Working Model3 Additional highlights -> WIN talents, GROW, and BOND our people -> Greater equity of opportunities continues through our global Gender Equity Program1 -> Social engagement with three strategic priorities Employability Enable our people to stay resilient and relevant in a permanently changing environment Our key ambitions1 -> Increase digital learning hours to "25 by 25"4 -> Access to Employee Assistance Program: maintain high level and expand globally to 100% by 2025 -> 30% improvement in Siemens' globally aggregated LTIFR5 by 2025 Additional highlights -> "MyGrowth" program to foster individual growth and performance at scale -> Broad portfolio for vocational education and training (VET) and lifelong learning -> Continued rollout of the Healthy and Safe @ Siemens program 1 Siemens without SHS. 2 Where legally possible and reasonable. 3 For employees with job profiles that make this possible and reasonable. 4 Digital learning hours per headcount. 5 LTIFR: Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (of Siemens employees and temporary workers) baseline FY 20. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 81



5.1 Working at Siemens 5.1 Working at Siemens - WIN talents, GROW, and BOND our people - 320,0001 employees worldwide - Global values and global corporate culture Management approach Structural factors such as demographic change, which con- tinue to widen the talent gap in key talent markets (including digital talents), management of unstable geopolitical condi- tions, and the decreasing half-life of knowledge are the principal challenges that we are addressing at Siemens. All of them are driving significant workforce transformations across our people and organizations. As the COVID-19 pandemic recedes, the past year has seen new global challenges that few had anticipated. In this ever-changing environment, our people and organization need to strengthen their resilience in order to stay relevant. More than ever, people are a determining factor for our growth. Empowering people and fostering a growth mindset Our aim is to establish an integrating, empowering culture of growth and transformation that ensures both sustainable business success and our people's employability. An ambition that we are also pursuing with our four strategic priorities, 7 STRATEGY two of which are especially relevant to People & Organization (P&O): Empowered People and a Growth Mind- set are reflected in our people strategy with a further focus on WIN, GROW, and BOND so we can attract and retain the right talents.2 1 All employee figures in this chapter refer to headcount and our own workforce. 2 Siemens without SHS. Talent markets continue to be highly dynamic and com- petitive. It is becoming harder to win and bond the highly sought-after talents that are key to driving the Siemens transformation. Candidates are clear about their expecta- tions of an attractive employer: (a) empowerment and personal choice (b) skill development (c) a sense of belonging and contributing to a larger purpose. Growing our people is a vital answer in tight talent markets. Gaining the trust of our people and bonding with them builds a competitive advantage that is regularly measured and reflected in our Siemens Global Engagement Survey (SGES)2. Our People & Organization governance and policies The People & Organization (P&O) unit, headed by our Chief People and Sustainability Officer (CPSO), is responsible for regulations and standards for our people that establish an integrating, empowering culture of growth and transfor- mation, that aims to support both a sustainable business success and our people's employability. All Governance units are working with our country and local business P&O func- tions to align them with local labor laws, support them to drive transformation and digitalization, and attract and retain talents. -> Our global and local P&O Governance are responsible for (global) policies, standards, and top strategic initiatives in P&O-related areas. -> Our global and local P&O Business Partners (BPs) are working with our managers to focus on strategic P&O topics and implementation that will support the business and functional needs. -> Our Siemens internal Global Shared Service centers man- age people operations. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 82



5.1 Working at Siemens Establishing a culture of trust Siemens' values and ethical standards for doing business are anchored in our Business Conduct Guidelines (BCGs). The BCGs define the basic principles and rules for our conduct both inside and outside the company. The BCGs are binding for our employees, managers, and top management globally. The principles of human rights, non-discrimination and non-intimidation, free choice of employment, prohibition of child labor, prohibition of forced labor and all forms of slavery, fair employment (including adequate compensation and appropriate working hours), freedom of association and collective bargaining, health, occupational safety, personal security, and protection and privacy of personal data are embedded in Siemens' BCGs, International Framework Agreement (IFA), Human Rights policy, and Compliance system. 7 COMPLIANCE AND ETHICS We place fair treatment and respect at the heart of our value system. Our aim is to respect the personal dignity, privacy, and rights of each individual. We believe that diversity enriches our workplace. We work together without regard to ethnic origin, culture, religion, age, disability, skin color, gender, sexual identity and orientation, or worldview. We do not tolerate discrimination, sexual or any other form of harassment, or inappropriate behavior towards individuals or groups. 7 HUMAN RIGHTS Targets We have adopted ambitious, specific goals in our DEGREE sustainability framework. The three fields of action - Ethics, Equity, and Employability - are key priority areas for the P&O unit at Siemens.2 7 OUR DEGREE SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK -> Ethics: We foster a culture of trust, adherence to ethical standards, and handling data with care. Our values and ethical principles are embedded in our BCGs, on which all our people are trained regularly. 7 COMPLIANCE AND ETHICS -> Equity: Equal treatment and respect are at the core of our corporate values. We aim to be the employer of choice and to foster diversity, inclusion, and community. In addition to fostering a culture of trust and empowerment, we want to create a sense of belonging and a safe envi- ronment where our people can give their best. 7 DIVERSITY, EQUITY & INCLUSION -> Employability: We continually invest in all levels of train- ing for our people. We support their resilience as people and relevance as skilled workers. We strive to enable our people to manage change effectively and to surpass their previous performance levels. We focus on digital learning, employee assistance programs, and occupational health and safety measures for them. 7 PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION AND LIFELONG LEARNING, 7 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT In addition, the P&O unit supports the DEGREE Governance ambition by integrating ESG criteria into the long-term variable compensation programs3 for the Managing Board and senior management. 7 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE AND ORGANIZATION 2 Siemens without SHS. 3 Assessment based on the Siemens internal ESG/sustainability index, which is based on customer satisfaction (Net Promoter Score), CO2 reduction, and digital learning hours. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 83



5.1 Working at Siemens E Equity Progress on DEGREE ambition #10: Access to employee share plans - maintain high level and expand globally to up to 100% by 2025 Siemens employee share program strengthens identification with the company Employee share ownership is an integral part of the Siemens DEGREE sustainability framework: We aim to maintain access to our employee share program at the 98% level and expand it globally to up to 100% by 2025.1 Owning a stake in the company is intended to motivate our people to take personal responsibility for their own actions. This ownership culture has a long tradition at Siemens: Our first profit-sharing program was introduced back in 1858. Today the global Siemens share program, which has been offered annually since 2008, is one of the largest employee share programs in the world. More than 102,000 employees invested in their company in fis- cal 2023, which means that almost 44% of all eligible employees participated.2 In addition, Siemens AG distributed around 573,000 free bonus shares to employees in the past fiscal year as part of the global share program. 7 OUR DEGREE SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK Siemens Healthineers has its own share program that it offers to its employees. Progress FY 21: 98% 99.9% ~100% by 2025 1 Where legally possible and reasonable. 2 Participation is open to all employees who were employee by a participating Siemens subsidiary on October 1 of the previous calendar year and continue to be employed at a participating Siemens subsidiary until at least the last day of the applicable offer period. Members of the Managing Board are excluded. Siemens without SHS Actions and results Launch of our Siemens Employer Branding campaign to attract and retain talents2 In 2023 we launched our new employer branding campaign Create a better #TomorrowWithUs to win and retain talents for Siemens as the inclusive employer of choice. Siemens is currently undergoing the most significant transformation in the company's history: transitioning from a mechanical engineering company to a technology company that drives sustainability. Our goal is to position Siemens as the inclusive employer of choice in all our relevant talent markets. This has also received external recognition, as Siemens has been listed among the "World's Most Attractive Employers 2023" by Forbes and Universum, as well as in national rankings like LinkedIn "Top Company 2023" in Germany. Fair and equitable talent process We are committed to transparent and equitable access to career opportunities and equal pay for equal work for our people. With access to our open and transparent Job Market and by leveraging new technologies to improve our skill- based recruiting, we foster cross-organizational develop- ment. Our Siemens MyGrowth development program and talent programs are designed to help develop our people's full potential. 7 PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION AND LIFELONG LEARNING Right to collective bargaining and freedom of association The principles of fair pay, the right to collective bargaining, and freedom of association are embedded in Siemens' BCGs and International Framework Agreement (IFA) 7 COMPLIANCE AND ETHICS. Siemens AG reaffirmed its commitment to workers' fundamental rights in an International Framework Agreement (IFA) signed with trade unions and our employee represen- tatives in 2012. 7 HUMAN RIGHTS SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 84 2 Siemens without SHS.



5.1 Working at Siemens According to the collective bargaining agreements in Ger- many, the pay system at Siemens is determined by collective bargaining negotiations between the trade union "IG Metall" and employers' associations. 79% of our employees in Ger- many are covered by collective bargaining agreements, an additional 19% of our employees in Germany are covered by collective agreements subject to codetermination by the Works Council, and our senior managers (2% of employees in Germany) are represented by the "Executive staff committee." Social dialog and relationship management Enabling a safe dialog between Siemens and our employee representatives is important for building trust with our peo- ple. The following employee representative bodies are established at Siemens: -> The Siemens Group Works Council, Central Works Council, local Works Councils, and other employee representative bodies represent all employees at Siemens in Germany - also disabled people and young workers. -> Our Siemens Europe Committee (SEC) comprises 37 rep- resentatives from 23 countries. The SEC represents all our people in the EU countries and the UK, Switzerland, and Norway. In addition to three regional meetings, the annual SEC meeting with all SEC members, representatives of the company, and our CPSO took place in fiscal 2023. -> In fiscal 2023, Siemens also held meetings with employee representatives and unions in non-EU countries. Commitment to fair pay We want to guarantee fair pay (coverage of basic needs) that at least conforms to the national statutory minimum wage. Subject to national regulations, Siemens adheres to the principle of "equal pay for equal work": for instance, equity in wages for women and men with the same job profile or role. We also review pay parity at regular intervals in order to eliminate unjustified differences (given the same job profile, role, competencies, experience, performance, etc.) as further testimony of our unwavering commitment to fair pay for our people. In fiscal 2023 we reviewed our 19 largest companies in different countries (selected by revenue)2 on the basis of our defined, market-based pay parity methodology. We are working with these companies to establish a long-term cultural change that supports our pay parity ambitions. Employee benefits and opportunities for today and tomorrow In an ever-changing world, we continuously review and modernize employee benefits. We offer flexible benefits programs that support our people's physical, mental, finan- cial, career, and social well-being throughout their work-life journey. With equity and inclusion in mind, the Siemens benefits programs2 aim to empower our people to realize their full potential and strengthen their resilience through a variety of benefits programs, insurance policies, retirement arrangements, and elective coverage. With an eye on sus- tainability as well as the diverse and evolving needs of our global team and their families, the external market is closely monitored for the latest industry trends and innovations. SIEMENS FINANCIAL REPORT FOR FISCAL 2023, COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT, PENSIONS Eligibility for Siemens sponsored benefits such as share plans, company pension scheme, the employee benefits programs, and parental/family leave regulations varies by country. Country-specific plans generally follow local regula- tions and market practices. Work-life balance To provide our people with even more flexibility and individ- ual solutions, we offer flexible working models. These models are structured according to local requirements and in ways that are compatible with the employees' roles. For instance, Siemens offers mobile working, part-time hours, sabbaticals, time-outs, parental/family leave, and partial early retirement. Parental leave for first and second care enables our people to manage their unique work-life needs. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 85 2 Siemens without SHS.



5.1 Working at Siemens Mobile working has been established as a core element of the "New Normal" in order to promote a sustainable work culture and environment. E Equity Progress on DEGREE ambition #11: Global commitment to the New Normal Working Model1 At Siemens, mobile working and flexibility of work location in the established hybrid New Normal Work- ing Model (2-3 days of mobile work per week as a standard offering for our people worldwide) also strengthen our ability to attract and retain the best talent. Our DEGREE ambition of a global commitment to the New Normal Working Model supports this aim worldwide. 7 OUR DEGREE SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK Progress Rollout continued 1 For employees with job profiles that make this possible and reasonable. Siemens without SHS We also encourage our people to achieve a balance between work and caring for relatives. As this topic continues to grow in importance, we will support our people in Germany who provide care for close family members. We offer a variety of support options through the Elder Care program. This pro- gram is based on four pillars: time off work and flexible working, communication, counseling, and training on health matters. Childcare at Siemens In fiscal 2023, as part of its family-friendly corporate policy, Siemens AG supported its people in Germany with a general tax-free childcare allowance of up to €100 per calendar month per child for the care of preschool-age children at a day-care center or similar facility. Siemens AG also grants its part-time employees in Germany a tax-free childcare allow- ance during parental leave for children up to 14 months of age. There are other options that our people in Germany can benefit from; for example, approximately 1,3002 childcare places, a summer vacation childcare program, and parent- child health retreats. The FutureOfWork@SIEMENS initiative The Siemens #FutureOfWork initiative tackles structural changes in the working environment by asking two essential questions: -> HOW will we work in the future? (#NewWork) -> WHAT will we work on in the future? (#NextWork) #NewWork focuses on helping organizations and individuals become more flexible and adaptable. For instance, exploring new forms of agile organization, collaboration, leadership, and flexible working conditions. In 2020, Siemens introduced #NextWork, which is a method- ology we use to proactively tackle the changing environment by preparing the organization and our people to stay relevant and employable. With #NextWork, we're addressing the key question of what our future jobs will look like. This includes identifying the roles, skills, and tasks of tomorrow and pro- viding specific and actionable workforce transformation roadmaps through our WIN, GROW, and BOND measures. 7 PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION AND LIFELONG LEARNING Engagement with stakeholders To highlight our culture of trust and empowerment, we are pursuing two initiatives that concentrate on understanding and taking account of our people's experiences and recog- nizing their achievements: We use the results of our Siemens Global Engagement Survey (SGES)2 at regular intervals to assess the efficiency and success of our actions and to derive any necessary steps for improvement. In January 2023, we had a response rate for the SGES of 65% (decrease of 4 percentage points from the year before). Our People Net Promoter Score (pNPS) was 39 (+3 points from the prior year). SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 86 2 Siemens without SHS.



5.1 Working at Siemens In addition, the Werner von Siemens Awards2 are given in seven different categories to honor achievements that have had a positive impact on Siemens and beyond. Sustainability is an integral focus of the Werner von Siemens Awards. In 2023, the trophies were presented to the strongest Business Unit, country and five project teams that enabled our cus- tomers to transform their industries, accelerated digitaliza- tion, contributed to technological innovation, empowered Siemens' people, and positively impacted society and the environment. Approximately 7,600 employees participated in this competition in 2023 and submitted 395 entries. Employee structure and change As of September 30, 2023, Siemens employed 320,000 people around the world. This amounts to an increase of about 9,000 employees from September 30, 2022. 55% of our employees were based in Europe, the Commonwealth of Independent States (C.I.S.), the Middle East, and Africa, 24% in Asia and Australia, and 21% in North America, Central America, and South America. Siemens employees (in % of total number of employees) September 30, 2023 21% Americas 24% Asia, Australia total 55% Europe, C.I.S.1, Middle East, Africa 1 Commonwealth of Independent States. The percentage of women in the total workforce is 27%. 27% Women as a percentage of total employees Hires and exits The number of new hires decreased by approximately 14% compared to fiscal 2022, and the number of exits decreased by about 15%. All other differences result from changes in the basis of consolidation and other changes. 1 Commonwealth of Independent States. Women hired 1 Commonwealth of Independent States. Employee turnover rate' 1 Employee turnover is defined as the ratio of voluntary and involuntary exits from Siemens during the fiscal year to the average number of employees. 2 3 Involuntary turnover rate is based on other reasons, including dismissals, end of temporary contracts, mutual consent, (early) retirement, death, and other reasons that are not an employee decision. Voluntary turnover rate is based on employee decisions. 2 Siemens without SHS. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 87



5.1 Working at Siemens Employment characteristics In fiscal 2023, 94% of our own workforce had permanent contracts. 4% of our own workforce used part-time working models. Full-time and part-time employees Changes in age distribution The distribution of employees by age group remained almost unchanged from the previous year. The average age in fiscal 2023 was 42 years. Age structure (as a percentage of total employees) September 30, 2023 <30 30-50 >50 Siemens 16% 59% 25% Europe, C.I.S.1, 13% Middle East, Africa 56% 30% Americas 15% 53% 71% 32% 8% Asia, Australia 21% 1 Commonwealth of Independent States. Further data on Working at Siemens are disclosed in the indicator table. 7 OUR SUSTAINABLITY INDICATORS SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 88



5.2 Diversity, Equity & Inclusion 5.2 Diversity, Equity & Inclusion - Focus on strengthening a sense of belonging - Greater equity of opportunities continues through our global Gender Equity Program1 - One of our DEGREE ambitions: 30% female share in top management by 20251 Management approach At Siemens, we transform the everyday, for everyone - for our customers, our people, and society at large. This also means committing to diversity, equity, and inclusion. We strive to create a work environment where our people are empowered and feel a sense of belonging. We believe that diversity positively impacts our teams and workplace and leads to more creative and innovative solutions. At Siemens, diversity means the inclusion and interaction of different ways of thinking, backgrounds, experiences, skills, and indi- vidual qualities across all levels and dimensions of the com- pany. Equity is an essential part of our corporate culture. Inclusion enables every voice to be heard and every individual to get involved. We believe that focusing on diversity, equity, and inclusion reduces the risk of making biased talent decisions. We have implemented recruitment and promotion strategies that promote equity of opportunities through our Gender Equity Program (GEP)1. We also offer various training opportunities on our new Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Learning Channel, we empower managers and teams through our Belonging Playbook, and we foster an open dialog and insights on diversity, equity, and inclusion for all our people on our Belonging Days. This helps us to foster a diverse work environment.1 7 PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION AND LIFELONG LEARNING Our governance and policies for diversity, equity, and inclusion We have established a global Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) unit that is active in many regions of the world. Led by our Chief Diversity Officer (CDO), the global Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Office manages and supports a wide range of activities. Siemens Healthineers has its own Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) organization to manage and orchestrate ambitions and activities. Our commitment to Human Rights is anchored in our Siemens Business Conduct Guidelines (BCGs) and global Human Rights policy. We do not tolerate discrimination, sexual or any other form of harassment, or inappropriate behavior toward individuals or groups. The guidelines clearly state: -> "We respect the personal dignity, privacy, and rights of each individual. We believe diversity enriches our work- place. We work together without regard to ethnic origin, culture, religion, age, disability, skin color, gender, sexual identity and orientation, or world view." -> "We respect the human rights of local communities and of people who are particularly vulnerable." > HUMAN RIGHTS We foster a sense of belonging to empower our people and to discover untapped growth potential in every individual. This principle is reflected in the motto #BelongingTrans- forms.1 Siemens also participates in strategic sponsorships and partnerships that facilitate worldwide programs and initia- tives, including the Diversity Charter. Initiatives like these enable Siemens to strengthen its commitment to promoting diversity, equity, and inclusion for all its people.2 1 Siemens without SHS. 2 Siemens AG Germany. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 89



5.2 Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Targets Equity is one field of action in our DEGREE sustainability framework that contributes to a greater sense of belonging for all our people. DEGREE ambition #9 - "30% female share in top management" - is aimed at continuously improving gender equity.1 E Equity Progress on DEGREE ambition #9: 30% female share in top management by 2025 We aim to increase the percentage of top manage- ment positions held by women globally to 30% by September 30, 2025.1 As of September 30, 2023, 31.1% of top management positions were held by women (+3.4% points compared to the previous year). 7 OUR DEGREE SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK Progress FY 20: 22.7% 31.1% 30% by 2025 1 This does not affect local or company-specific diversity targets and requirements set by law or regulation. More details about the targets and staffing requirements that apply to Siemens AG, as well as the diversity concepts that are being pursued for the Supervisory Board and Managing Board of Siemens AG, can be found in the annual Corporate Governance Statement available on the Siemens Investor Relations website under the Corporate Governance heading. Siemens without SHS Our commitment to greater gender equity is not limited to top management or to complying with statutory and regula- tory requirements; rather, it aims to ensure equal opportunities for all genders at all levels of our company. Actions and results We actively promote diversity, equity, and inclusion by creating a working environment that is open and welcoming to all people. Global LGBTQIA+- Standards and further activities Siemens supports the UN Initiative for Global LGBTQIA+- Standards of Conduct for Companies.1 In alignment with the Diversity Charter, Siemens and its General Works Council have initiated activities like "Respect and Appreciation," which sponsors local projects intended to bring these values to life for our people in Germany. Our German prototype program "Trans* at work" supports our people with collegial counselling before, during, and after transition.1 Following its success, we developed rele- vant program guidelines for our people and managers. In addition, we were able to work with our people to identify Trans Advocates who could serve as a first point of contact for any inquiries about the program.1 Siemens also released a global Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Learning Channel to raise awareness of the importance of a more equitable and inclusive workplace and to recognize and address any potential biases or discriminatory practices.1 Integrating diversity, equity, and inclusion into all aspects of our people experience journey During the regular review of our practices, we realized that integrating diversity, equity, and inclusion into all aspects of our people experience - from recruitment and onboarding to career development - is the key element in a more diverse and inclusive working environment. We launched our global Gender Equity Program (GEP)1 with the aim of ensuring equity of opportunities across the entire organization - from equitable hiring into business functions and equitable promotions to management to representation of women in top management.1 SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 90 1 Siemens without SHS.



5.2 Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Inclusion of people with disabilities Siemens strives to ensure equity for people with disabilities, their inclusion in society and the workplace, their self-deter- mined participation, and their right to be treated with respect. At Siemens, we believe that each person is of value and importance, regardless of their ability. And while we aim for a barrier-free work environment at Siemens, inclusion means more than just accessibility. It is a holistic way of thinking and acting that eliminates both visible and invisible barriers and encourages a culture of conscious, equitable participation and understanding. We believe that this way of thinking supports and enables people with disabilities to be included and to give their best. The Ability@Siemens1 initiative promotes a culture of inte- gration for approximately 4,8003 disabled people currently working at Siemens in Germany. It is based on an inclusion agreement with the general representative board for dis- abled employees.4 Global awareness days foster the spirit of tolerance and acceptance We foster the spirit of tolerance and acceptance at Siemens worldwide through our internal campaigns on global aware- ness days: for instance, International Women's Day and Global Accessibility Awareness Day. Beyond, in our Belonging Days, we are offering insights and learning opportunities on DEI via a global broadcast to all our people.1 Siemens also joined the Valuable 500, an initiative launched by the World Economic Forum to place the concerns of per- sons with disabilities on companies' management agendas.1 We support Employee Resource Groups (ERG)1 and people-led activities to help transform our business by bolstering a commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion. These groups include Siemens PRIDE (global), the Neurodiversity Network (United Kingdom), the Black Professional Network (United States), and Women in Tech (China). In our Pride@SIEMENS networks for the LGBTQIA+5 Commu- nity, our people around the world can meet and share their thoughts, feelings, and support each other. People on the LGBTQIA+ spectrum and straight allies6 are equally welcome. Accountability of our local CEOs and business leaders A lesson learned on our journey to fostering diversity, equity, and inclusion is that the involvement and accountability of our local CEOs and business leaders is integral to the success of the DEGREE sustainability framework Equity' field of action. This led to our regular CEO Check-In sessions with the aim of acquiring a deeper understanding of our local com- munities and the societies in which we operate. Women in the workforce In fiscal 2023, the share of women in the own workforce at Siemens was 27%. For many years, we have been working to build a diverse, equitable, inclusive corporate culture, and we have achieved measurable success. This includes our efforts to increase the global share of management positions held by women by the end of fiscal 2025. In fiscal 2023, 32,900 employees held management positions at Siemens7. The share of women in management positions was 21.6%. Further data on Diversity, Equity & Inclusion at Siemens are disclosed in the indicator table. Z OUR SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS We are also pursuing a variety of initiatives, programs, and measures to foster a cultural change toward gender equity, diversity, and integration. The following represent two of the many different women's networks around the world: 1 Siemens without SHS. 3 The number of severely handicapped employees (SHE) is based on legally defined guidelines and specifications according §§ 154-1+3 SGB IX (German Social Law). 4 Inclusion Agreement for Siemens AG Germany. 5 Lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans, queer, intersexual, and asexual. 6 "Straight allies" are persons who identify as heterosexual and cisgender who support the LGBTQIA+ movement and speak out against homophobia, lesbophobia, and transphobia. 7 Employees in management positions include all managers with disciplinary responsibility. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 91



5.2 Diversity, Equity & Inclusion -> Global Leadership of Women@Technology & Innovation (GLOW@TI)1: The GLOW@TI network aims to promote careers for women with a background in science. Women in this network are often appointed to technology field and research group management positions. -> GROW2GLOW1: The GROW2GLOW network provides business coaching for women as a way of helping them realize their full potential. The network comprises more than 140 coaches in 13 countries. Our people's satisfaction with their belonging, inclusion, and well-being In our Siemens Global Engagement Survey (SGES)1 in fiscal 2023, we asked our people about their belonging, inclusion, and well-being. We are constantly working to make our people feel that they can be themselves at work by imple- menting the measures mentioned in this section - throughout the people experience journey at Siemens. In fiscal 2023, Siemens received many diversity prizes and awards worldwide, including the "#Diversity:IN" in the United States and "Best Place to Work for LGBTQ+ Equality - Human Rights Campaign (HRC)" in Mexico.1 1 Siemens without SHS. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 92



5.3 Professional education and lifelong learning 5.3 Professional education and lifelong learning - Broad portfolio for vocational education and train- ing (VET) and lifelong learning - MyGrowth program to foster individual growth and performance at scale - One of our DEGREE ambitions: 25 digital learning hours by 20251 Management approach Siemens' continued growth and success depends on our highly qualified and skilled people. That's why we have developed an extensive portfolio of lifelong learning oppor- tunities to empower our people and help them acquire rele- vant skills and enhanced resilience for today and tomorrow. We are continuously improving our learning, career develop- ment, and growth opportunities to positively impact our people. We focus on lifelong learning and upskilling to enable our people to adapt to an ever-changing environ- ment. We promote a growth mindset in order to create an inclusive, empowering culture of growth and transformation that helps enhance our people's employability and supports our sustainable business success. Our comprehensive learning portfolio enables us to continu- ally expand and evolve our people's core competencies. We aim to support our people in successfully managing transi- tion and change while simultaneously enhancing Siemens' agility and resilience. Today's talent recruitment needs to satisfy an increasing need for digital and technical expertise. As the pace of technological development and digitalization reduces the half-life of expertise, continuous learning and upskilling is fundamental to Siemens' continuing success. Our ongoing investments in vocational education and train- ing (VET) and talent-entry programs also help us attract and retain talents. 1 Siemens without SHS. Our P&O Talent & Leadership governance and policies Siemens' global P&O Talent & Leadership unit is responsible for winning, developing, connecting, and retaining talents (WIN, GROW and BOND). Our Global Learning and Growth (GLG) unit is responsible for learning and individual growth at scale by orchestrating and managing our Siemens Learning & Growth ecosystem, including our MyGrowth program, with our learning experi- ence platform My Learning World, our policies, and other strategic learning initiatives. It gives orientation and guidance to our people and leadership and manages development opportunities around the globe. We provide a broad range of trainings that cover technology and other specialties, along with developmental courses for inter-personal skills like team leadership and team building. Siemens Professional Education (SPE) coordinates and manages our international apprenticeships and dual-study programs to support ongoing talent development. As part of our commitment to our strategic priorities of Empowered People and Growth Mindset, a core focus is on driving awareness of the importance of lifelong learning. Siemens' objective is to help our people manage change effectively and support them in remaining resilient as indi- viduals and relevant to the employment market. Targets In our Siemens DEGREE sustainability framework, our learn- ing ambition and measures related to lifelong learning are embedded in Employability, one of the six fields of action, in order to encourage our people's resilience.1 SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 93



5.3 Professional education and lifelong learning E Employability Progress on DEGREE ambition #12: Increase digital learning hours to "25 by 25" In terms of our DEGREE ambitions, each employee completed 23 hours of digital learning (+16 hours from fiscal 2020, the basis year - a 229% increase). 7 OUR DEGREE SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK Progress FY 20: 7h 23h 25h by 2025 Siemens without SHS Management compensation at Siemens also includes a life- long learning component. It incorporates long-term perfor- mance incentives based on ESG criteria and is defined under Governance in our DEGREE sustainability framework. The assessment is based on the internal ESG/Sustainability Index, which includes, among other things, digital learning hours.2 7 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE AND ORGANIZATION Actions and results As a responsible employer, we offer a wide range of profes- sional education and learning opportunities to our people. These opportunities include development programs, talent- entry programs, future-oriented learning, re- and upskilling, and additional funding for appropriate programs. Customized development programs for our people Our development programs are customized for both global and local use. Key programs include: -> Siemens Core Learning Paths (CLP): Designed for specific areas like sales, project management, procurement, production, and software architecture, CLPs provide self- guided learning content and trainer-supported virtual training sessions. In fiscal 2023, a total of 29 CLPs were made available to target groups worldwide. -> With our Siemens Potential Development Programs (PDP)1, we have created an ever-growing network of more than 4,000 people from 57 countries which constantly feeds our talent pipeline. Almost 40 certified programs are hosted by different organizations according to their specific business needs. They enable talents to acquire skills that address current and future needs through accel- erated learning interventions and stretch assignments in order to equip them to be powerful transformation agents. -> GLOW@TI (Global Leadership of Women@Technology & Innovation)1: The GLOW@TI initiative focuses on attract- ing, developing, and retaining talented women with a background in STEM and associated innovation fields. The initiative helps women realize their full potential and promotes a culture of innovation by building strong net- works between departments and organizations. -> Siemens Leadership Excellence (SLE)1: Our SLE programs are designed to connect and enable our leaders. The objective of our SLE Pipeline programs for high-ranking executives and global talents is to strategically strengthen our succession planning. Our top management leadership program Leading in Sustainability helps participants think strategically about sustainability opportunities for Siemens, identify sustainable solutions to their business challenges, and provide a common understanding of the core competencies and organizational readiness required for corporate management and transformation. The SLE Leaders' Labs for alumni also enable Siemens to build a strong global network of managers, both within the organization and beyond. As one of the strategic learning priorities, we initiated the new scalable L.E.A.P. - Lead. Empower. Accelerate. Practice. program in 2023 for all management levels. Our talent entry programs for individual career paths Siemens' development and integration of the next generation of leaders will allow us to build diverse and agile manage- ment teams capable of successfully managing change and transition and driving growth. Our people are grounded in a strong growth mindset and values of cohesion and dedication that extend above and beyond our programs and even their time at Siemens. 1 Siemens without SHS. 2 Assessment based on the Siemens internal ESG/sustainability index, which is based on customer satisfaction (Net Promoter Score), CO2 reduction, and digital learning hours. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 94



5.3 Professional education and lifelong learning -> Xcelerate Your Potential at Siemens - XPS Leadership Program1 is an opportunity for outstanding candidates in the field of digital business management. By developing their skills and their global networks, the program sup- ports participants develop in leadership roles. -> Finance Excellence Program (FEP) is a finance leadership program that builds a foundation for future commercial leaders with a digital mindset. Participants benefit from being assigned a personal mentor from Siemens' finance leadership team and customized development measures. -> Siemens Graduate Program (SGP) is an international trainee program for high-potential candidates with a master's degree that has been in existence for more than 100 years. It offers a customized development journey and excellent networking opportunities throughout the company. Our shift to digital learning is key We have seen digital learning accelerate in recent years as the global pandemic compelled a shift in how we deliver our learning programs. This digitalization trend was well- received. Based on the positive reception, we added more digital training programs, modules, and courses with the intention of ensuring broad-based participation and providing learners with flexibility. Future-oriented learning and career development instruments The MyGrowth program combines our learning and career development tools and content to promote continuous growth at scale and carve out career progression paths for our people. This program comprises the following three components: -> MyGrowth Self-Reflection: To build a successful career, it is essential for our people to know their own strengths and weaknesses and to be aware of their personal stage of development. A variety of tools and services are offered along with content that includes identifying strengths (Strengthscope®), perception of others (feedback tool), and coaching (Peer2Peer). -> MyGrowth Learning1: Our Al-driven learning platform My Learning World creates a personalized learning expe- rience that is globally accessible any time and offers more than 135,000 learning resources across a variety of topics and formats in order to meet our people's varied learning preferences and requirements. Our people can benefit from multiple learning formats including videos, e-learning modules, virtual training courses, technical literature, podcasts, and e-books. -> MyGrowth Career: This program allows our people to shape their own career development. It is integrated into a holistic concept and focuses on the individual's career trajectory. Core components of MyGrowth Career include the open markets reflected in the Open Job Market and People Profile and other options like Job Tagging (show- ing interest in a particular department), Job Shadowing, and Mentoring to encourage personal growth. Siemens Growth Talks are the connecting links between the elements mentioned above. All of our people receive regular performance reviews in the form of Siemens Growth Talks. These agile, ongoing, forward-looking, strength-based conversations support both individual and organizational growth, performance, and well-being. Support materials like discussion guidelines, questions for reflection, and workshop templates help our people, teams, and managers maintain an ongoing, respectful, and encouraging dialog on personal development and learning. Future Fund supports the transition to a new world of work Siemens AG and its Central Works Council intend to take a proactive role in shaping structural change. We're working together to create a learning organization that can master structural transformation as well as optimize the opportunities of change that will benefit our people. A Future Fund has been established to support development programs intended to help our people stay oriented in a disruptive employment environment. In particular, it enables them to qualify and learn beyond their previous limits. It finances projects related to structural change that go beyond site boundaries, with support from the site management and the Central Works Council. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 95 1 Siemens without SHS.



5.3 Professional education and lifelong learning Siemens AG in Germany allocated a total of €100 million for Average training hours per employee the Future Fund that will be invested over a period of four fiscal years starting in January 2019. The term of the Future Fund has now been extended to 2026. More than €3 million were approved for Future Fund projects in fiscal 2023, about €11 million less than in the previous year. Our open SiTecSkills Academy for technical re- and upskilling Working with our external education partners, we opened the SiTecSkills Academy to the wider learning ecosystem, because we want to share our expertise and experience in skilled worker qualification with our customers and other companies. In fiscal 2023, we had 18 training centers in Germany that offered about 200 trainings focused on technical re- and upskilling, complemented by professional consulting and support. Vocational training to start your career With a dedicated in-house education institution for voca- tional training - Siemens Professional Education (SPE) - Siemens is one of the largest training companies for secondary school graduates. SPE offers apprenticeships and dual-study programs in technical, IT, and commercial fields to enable young talents to strengthen their existing capabil- ities and acquire the new skills needed to shape a digital and automated future. In fiscal 2023, we had approximately 5,800 apprentices and students in dual-study programs worldwide. Lifelong learning is crucial to success On average, each employee spent about 30 hours in digital learning or on-site trainings during the fiscal year. Our new training opportunities and learning week promotions resulted in an increase in the number of training hours in fiscal 2023. In fiscal 2023, Siemens invested €237 million in our people's training, which corresponds to an average of €753 per employee. In total, we invested approximately €416 million in employee education and training. Ø 30 training hours per employee. Average training hours per employee by gender in fiscal 2023: Women: Men: Ø 28h Ø 30h No/other gender entry: Ø 18h Further data on professional education and lifelong learning at Siemens are disclosed in the indicator table. 7 OUR SUSTAINABLITY INDICATORS Our people shape Siemens' learning activities In our regular Siemens Global Engagement Survey (SGES)1 in fiscal 2023, we asked our people about the growth mindset culture and their satisfaction with our learning opportunities. The feedback of the SGES underlines that digital learning offers our people access to many more learning opportuni- ties and greater flexibility. The survey results also shed light on the fact that our estab- lished Siemens MyGrowth program was successfully pro- moted worldwide and was well-received by our people. This was confirmed when we were recognized with several awards in fiscal 2023, such as two "Red Dot Design Awards" in the categories "Corporate Design" and "Educational Illus- tration" for MyGrowth. We will continue to use the survey results to focus on strategic learning and continuously shaping our portfolio of future-oriented learning opportunities. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 96 1 Siemens without SHS.



5.4 Occupational health and safety management 5.4 Occupational health and safety management - Resilience and well-being are at the core of occupational health and safety management - The Healthy & Safe @ Siemens program will continue to be rolled out worldwide - Further reduction in the accident rate Management approach At Siemens we are committed to creating a healthy and safe work environment for our people and to sustainably support- ing their well-being and performance. The world of work is changing dynamically, as are the demands and needs regarding health and safety. A core task for our occupational health and safety department is to maintain and further improve the resilience, adaptability, and well-being of our people. We believe that focusing on health and safety management reduces the risk of physical injuries and mental ill health. Siemens aims to mitigate health and safety risks effectively through management systems, designing healthy and safe working conditions, internal monitoring, and controls. Our Employee Assistance Program also supports our people in coping with psychosocial personal concerns through individual counseling. Adapting and re-designing our work systems is a continuous task. The goal is to empower our people to get involved, engage, and participate. By changing the way we work, digitalization provides the opportunity to steadily improve our health and safety assessments and management systems globally. Our occupational health and safety governance and policies The Environmental Protection, Health Management, and Safety (EHS) department manages health and safety mea- sures at Siemens. It is organized locally, integrated into each business unit and each regional company, and reports directly to the respective business manager. EHS Officers coordinate the collaboration of EHS experts across the various fields of action. The main task of this expert function is to advise managers and teams. The func- tion's profile has changed significantly in recent years: Rather than monitoring compliance with rules and workflows as in the past, the focus is now on supporting our people in dealing safely with dynamically changing requirements. Health and safety committees that meet regularly have been established in the relevant country organizations and on the local level. Here, management and employee representatives jointly coordinate the specific measures and initiatives needed for a healthy and safe work environment. Based on our Business Conduct Guidelines (BCGs), we have established internal monitoring systems and a company- wide risk management and control process. We anchor our actions in Siemens' EHS Principles, which embed our EHS policy. They also include an obligation for all operating units to demonstrate a management system certi- fiable to ISO 45001. The effectiveness of these management systems is subject to an annual internal review that checks, among other things, whether processes for risk assessments and emergency management are implemented in accor- dance with internal and external regulations, that inspec- tions and reviews have been carried out, significant risks and opportunities have been identified and whether they are reflected in measurable goals and measures. The manage- ment system is also externally certified according to market requirements in the respective operating units. Siemens' suppliers commit to upholding the Siemens Group Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Third-Party Intermediaries and Business Partners. This Code of Conduct obligates our suppliers to comply with health and safety standards and to take responsibility for the health and well-being of their employees. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 97



5.4 Occupational health and safety management Targets One of the DEGREE sustainability framework fields of action is Employability1. This speaks to the ability of our people to successfully manage continually changing requirements. In addition to continuous professional development, individual resilience is essential for adapting to challenging life events and work situations. With our health and safety ambitions to maintain and expand access to the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) and improve the global aggregated accident rate (LTIFR), we are contributing to the DEGREE field of action Employability.1 E Employability Progress on DEGREE ambition #13: Access to Employee Assistance Program: Maintain high level and expand to 100% globally by 2025 100% access to the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) by 2025 - As an integral part of our psychosocial risk management, the EAP anonymously supports individual employees in coping with psychosocial stress through individual consultations. In 2023, 96% of all our colleagues worldwide had access to EAP. This enables us to not only support all our people worldwide in developing health-promoting behaviors, but shall also help to raise general awareness of psy- chosocial issues in society as a whole. Progress FY 20: 82% 96% 100% by 2025 Siemens without SHS 1 Siemens without SHS. We design healthy and safe working conditions by continu- ously monitoring and evaluating potential risks and deriving appropriate measures. By doing so, we aim to enable our people to achieve a balanced state of well-being, better handle stressors, and use their capacities and resources with greater awareness. Moreover, we empower our people to grow, work more productively, and make important contri- butions to the company's success. 7 WORKING AT SIEMENS TO achieve this, we provide a broad variety of resilience-focused activities that include training and curated learning paths via our learning platform. 7 PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION AND LIFELONG LEARNING E Employability Progress on DEGREE ambition #14: 30% improvement in Siemens' globally aggregated LTIFR by 2025 30% improvement in the global accident rate (LTIFR) by 2025 (base year: 2020) - compared to the refer- ence value of 0.31 in fiscal 2020, we have achieved an improvement of 26% to date. Progress FY 20: 0.31 -26% -30% by 2025 Siemens without SHS SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 98



5.4 Occupational health and safety management Actions and results The Siemens-wide strategic priority of having empowered people guides our actions in the areas of health and safety. Safety, health, resilience, and well-being are intangible assets for our company. The company-wide Healthy and Safe @ Siemens program1 Our company-wide Healthy and Safe @ Siemens (HS @ S) program invites employees to help shape leadership, learn from each other, increase well-being at work, and promote innovations and improvements in occupational health and safety. It is based on five principles: We care for our own and each other's well-being. We speak up and take part in making the workplace healthier and safer. We are inclusive and invite a diverse range of views on health and safety. We are engaged in learning and sharing about how we can work better, safer, and healthier. We prepare for and adapt well to changing circum- stances. The principles guide the process of HS @ S in three steps: reality check, resilient health and safety management, and evaluation. The reality check helps build a comprehensive understanding of the status of health and safety. It includes a survey that provides a snapshot of employee perception across various aspects in the categories "work climate," "leadership," "learn- ing," and "processes and resources." Results are reviewed and potential for improvement is identified. Based on the first rollout of the HS @ S, additional perspectives - including the perceptions of management in key functions and data- based expert views - were added to the reality check. Furthermore, in fiscal 2023, the management's perceptions of our business challenges and their impacts on health and safety were added by interviews and specific local factors influencing health and safety were further analyzed. In the second step, measures are defined and agreed upon for resilient health & safety management. The results are then evaluated in the third step. Elements of Healthy and Safe @ Siemens1 Key results Key results Toolbox Toolbox Reality check Resilient HS management Principles Evaluation Toolbox Key results Siemens has created a toolbox containing the necessary materials for implementing the HS @ S process that can be customized to each country, location, and business. The program is designed to run until 2030. Individual priorities and objectives may be adjusted over time. Two of the key results (access to Employee Assistance Program and 30% improvement in the global accident rate (LTIFR)) have also been incorporated into the DEGREE sustainability framework in the field of action Employability.1 Continued demand for occupational health and safety management Addressing the increasing need to enhance both individual and organizational resilience is crucial in today's world. This is essential for the sustainability of our business operations and also aligns with the sustainability imperative. Over the last few years, our health and safety management continued to prove its resilience and reliability throughout diverse global crises. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 99 1 Siemens without SHS.



5.4 Occupational health and safety management To support our people's resilience, we have implemented key measures: -> We have expanded the scope of learning and exchange opportunities, particularly regarding resilience, psycho- logical safety, and psychosocial risk management. In fiscal 2023, we added trainings on resilience and well-being to our new scalable Lead. Empower. Accelerate. Practice (L.E.A.P) learning program. -> Managers and employees can take advantage of continu- ously updated digital learning opportunities for self- determined learning. In the Siemens Learning World, these offerings are tailored to different target groups and are bundled according to topic. 7 PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION AND LIFELONG LEARNING -> In fiscal 2023, we launched the Digital Safety Transforma- tion Series, offering an opportunity to provide our EHS professionals with guidance in developing digital safety strategies and remote safety management programs, implementing emerging technologies to control risk, deploying EHS software, and improving digital literacy. Safety Essentials Driver and vehicle safety -> Managers and team members engage in ongoing commu- nication about health, safety, and well-being at work. -> We have implemented two global campaigns addressing contributing factors of injuries and mental health. We also address psychosocial risks in our EHS Hazards Identi- fication, Risk Assessment, and Risk Control (HIRARC) pro- cess. -> In addition, Siemens' regional companies and business units have developed a variety of initiatives, including regular "Health Talks," learning and action weeks, and "Safety Focus Days." The Siemens Safety Essentials Maintaining health, safety, and well-being is a responsibility that is shared by our management and people. This respon- sibility extends beyond providing workplaces in accordance with all applicable norms, standards, and requirements. To protect and train our people, we have established the Safety Essentials with core safety behaviors. We expect our people to adhere to those essentials at all times and to place health, safety, and the environment first in all that they do when working for Siemens. Hazardous energy control Electrical Safety Safety Essentials with core safety behaviors Potential explosive gas and vapors Machine guarding signage and safety interlocks L Working at height/ fall protection Cranes and lifting Confined space entry SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 100



5.4 Occupational health and safety management Continuous expansion of health services We are continuously expanding our spectrum of health ser- vices to support the resilience and health of our people at work and beyond. In fiscal 2023, 99%1 of our employees have access to company medical care. This includes the prevention and early identification of health problems through health checks, screenings, and vaccinations. We treat health issues seriously and in a timely manner, which includes leveraging telemedicine consultations or referrals to experts. In addition, we facilitate a successful return to work by supporting our employees with reintegration mea- sures and ergonomic advice. 94%1 of our employees were able to take advantage of a wide range of health education offerings designed to strengthen their health literacy. These offerings are delivered through a holistic approach that covers physical, mental, and social health and well-being. Accident numbers at a low level In fiscal 2023, the number of work-related accidents further decreased, which correlated with the reduction in the global accident rate (LTIFR) for the same period. Accidents are analyzed and lessons are derived to continuously improve and minimize the occurrence of accidents. The characteris- tics of this year's accidents are comparable to the previous year: 78% of the reported incidents were assigned to the "minor" category (minor injuries like scratches and abrasions). Finger injuries continued to account for the majority of incidents. 4 fatalities occurred in fiscal 2023. One contractor lost their life due to burns sustained in an arc-flash incident, and another contractor passed away after being struck by a piling rig's leg. Among the other two contractor fatalities, one occurred during ventilation maintenance using a lifting platform, and the other during work on a construction site while using a mobile scaffold. Each incident and fatality is a source of grief for the people concerned as well as their families, friends, and colleagues. Each incident is a renewed call for us to keep improving and ensuring a safe and healthy work environment for our people and partners. 1 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR): number of lost-time cases (LTC) × 200,000 / work hours; LTC are accidents that result in at least one lost day of work. 2 As a globally operating company, Siemens isn't always authorized or able to obtain sensitive information about contract workers' health and occupational safety or complete figures on their work hours. As a result, the Temporary Worker LTIFR for Siemens includes only temporary workers hired by a temporary employment agency or under a contract for work and services. In fiscal 2023, a total of 62 occupational illness cases were registered.2 The majority of cases were attributed to occupa- tional cancer. Joint contribution to our health and safety approach Our people contribute to our joint health and safety approach every day. There is no one-size-fits-all solution for imple- menting health and safety due to differing requirements, tasks, and work situations throughout the company. Recog- nizing this, we want to involve our employees in the design and implementation of our health and safety initiatives and programs. The active participation of our people enables our company-wide, country-specific, and business-specific initia- tives and programs to thrive. For instance, psychosocial risks are assessed once a year via the work well-being factors embedded in the Siemens Global Engagement Survey (SGES)1. The relevant teams then discuss and document the risks, opportunities, and measures, and outcomes in a struc- tured follow-up process. 1 Siemens without SHS. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 101 2 Excluding temporary workers and contractors.



5.5 Corporate citizenship 5.5 Corporate citizenship - Improving people's living conditions - Giving societies access to knowledge and technologies - A variety of projects with three strategic priorities Management approach Corporate citizenship has been an integral part of Siemens from the very beginning, with the aim to empower people and societies. As defined by Werner von Siemens over 175 years ago, the company's mission is to provide technol- ogies that improve quality of life and create lasting value for society based on our portfolio, knowledge, and expertise. In alignment with this mission, our corporate citizenship pro- gram aims to positively impact society in every country where we operate through voluntary work. The foundation for our approach are the UN's Sustainable Development Goals. We identify key topics for our respective countries, derive specific actions and illustrate how we are making a positive contribution to achieving them. This approach allows Siemens to focus primarily on giving back to the societies where we operate. Our governance and policies for corporate citizenship Responsibility for selecting and managing non-profit and socially impactful activities lies with the local departments or management teams in each country. This approach helps to provide support and create value where it is needed most. Simultaneously, we combine in-depth local knowledge with long-term commitment to overcome social challenges that vary from region to region. Along with six other international Siemens foundations and Siemens Caring Hands e.V., the Siemens Stiftung comple- ments our corporate citizenship initiatives. @WWW.SIEMENS-STIFTUNG.ORG/EN 1 Siemens without SHS. Siemens believes that it is important to work for the good of society beyond our business activities and to invest in charitable work. This belief is anchored in our Corporate Citizenship Strategy. Our principles serve as a global frame- work and provide guidance for local sponsorship activities, donations, charitable contributions, and memberships. This guidance defines how a variety of potential contributions can be deployed connecting each one to our overarching principles. Our own Corporate Volunteering Standard describes a com- mon global corporate citizenship concept and framework which is supported by an internal volunteering platform being launched in fiscal 2023. Targets As an important element of our sustainability strategy, cor- porate citizenship is embedded in the DEGREE sustainability framework.1 By strengthening our identification of different target groups for our corporate citizenship activities and offering a range of training measures covering all phases of life, we contribute to two of the framework's fields of action: Equity and Employability. In every society where we operate, our ambition is to improve general living and healthcare conditions, enhance educa- tional and training opportunities for the labor market, and strengthen social cohesion and cultural identification. At the same time, we aim to strengthen Siemens' reputation and local footprint, increase understanding of our technologies, and position our company as an attractive employer, while also laying the foundation for future innovation. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 102



5.5 Corporate citizenship Actions and results Scale sustainability impact with a shared value approach Grounded in our core business and competencies, we have defined three strategic focus areas for our corporate citizen- ship activities: access to technology, access to education, and sustaining communities. In addition to participating in traditional philanthropy, we leverage our technological expertise, capabilities, and prod- ucts to contribute to society. Access to technology on the basis of our core competencies We want to share our knowledge about automation, digita- lization, and intelligent infrastructure with the intention of making it accessible to people around the world. This knowledge is especially important in developing coun- tries, where it can help meet the fundamental needs of local societies, including energy supply, clean water, and basic medical care. The objective is to help these societies improve their overall quality of life and develop new perspectives for solving problems in the future. In addition, by equipping research laboratories with control and automation equipment in countries like Hungary, Turkey, and Latvia, Siemens is helping improve educational and employment opportunities. In fiscal 2023, we worked with TANSAM, the Tamilnadu Smart and Advanced Manufacturing Centre, to build and equip an incubation center in India to spur industrial inno- vation at the grassroot level. The center employs under- privileged people and has already trained more than 16,000 students on Industry 4.0 skills. Donating refurbished laptops to people in need is another element in our aspiration to help transform communities for a better tomorrow. People in need can connect and interact with others and at the same time get access to quality education. Access to education is crucial for societies around the world Our commitment to education encompasses diverse activi- ties and includes STEM-oriented training and promoting excellence through competition to providing free software licenses and setting up new institutional education paths, including dual education and apprenticeship systems. Our Core Areas Access to technology Access to education With the aid of our core competencies in digitalization, automation, and electrifica- tion, as well as scientific research, we strive to give as many people as possible the chance to use the latest technologies. Sustaining communities Knowledge is a resource on which our future depends. Therefore, improving educational prospects and allowing broad access to education are critically important challenges for all societies everywhere in the world. Our goals are to establish stable living condi- tions, protect values, unleash creativity, improve intercultural understanding, and contribute to progress. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 103



5.5 Corporate citizenship The promotion of education can take different forms and pursue different objectives: However, the primary objective remains consistent. We aim to provide enhanced equal access to future opportunities, and to give young people the tools to master future challenges. Coding skills are increasingly relevant to helping people and organizations overcome the challenges of digitalization. As such, Siemens supports a diverse range of programming- oriented learning programs and projects designed for children. These include UBBU in Portugal, Hacker School in Germany, and Project Jigyaasa in India. Many of these pro- grams are supported by volunteers from Siemens staff. In addition to the programs mentioned above, in fiscal 2023 we supported the Innovation4Sustainability bootcamp, a local initiative for more than 30 students from public STEM schools across Egypt. The bootcamp was designed and developed with the intention of solving industrial waste management challenges in the electronics sector by empow- ering a group of diverse students through a series of hands-on trainings, workshops, and ideation using an agile methodology throughout the bootcamp. In Argentina, we worked with the Siemens Foundation Argen- tina to design a 30-hour internationally certified training pro- gram based on Siemens' 3D design software. The program provides an up-to-date technical education that meets the needs and requirements of the socio-productive sector and aims to enhance employability by helping bridge the digital divide for more than 2,500 students and 250 teachers. Sustaining communities is key for social cohesion Siemens believes that identification with one's local cultural heritage is important for social cohesion. With this objective in mind, we support cultural and social activities. The Siemens Arts Program contributes to this objective with a diverse range of projects: for example, support for the first Namibian opera designed to promote intercultural under- standing. In addition, we help local communities create safe and stable environments. For instance, in fiscal 2023, we provided accommodations at our company premises in Warsaw to Ukrainian refugees. We are continuously striving to improve our impact on social cohesion. A major challenge in recent years included unfore- seen events like the global pandemic and the war in Ukraine. To help those affected, we launched a charity program in Germany and will continue to roll it out in other countries to better coordinate our measures and offer our people options for help. Siemens Stiftung: Working for sustainable social development Siemens Stiftung is an internationally operating foundation established by Siemens in 2008 as an independent nonprofit organization. The foundation focuses on three key themes: Access to Essential Services, Connected Societies and Climate and Sustainability, and adopts a proactive approach to shaping the transformation required by these challenges. By working with partners in the fields of education, social entrepreneurship, and culture, the foundation reinforces collective learning and locally based sustainable structures. The foundation works with the income from its €390 million endowment as well as additional partner funding in Africa, Europe, and Latin America. Siemens and its employees supported Siemens Stiftung's projects with a number of donation campaigns during the fiscal year. One example is the COVID-19 Aid Fund, which supported the "STEM Education for Innovation" initiative launched by Siemens Stiftung to advance innovative educa- tion formats in Latin American countries. To date it has spent €0.75 million on projects that included producing 467 digital and analog instructional media for the entire educational chain and providing more training for more than 245,000 STEM teachers and other interested participants in more than 300 trainings, workshops, and webinars. The fund also supported the creation of a multi-stakeholder network that promotes STEMplus education in 14 mainly Latin American countries as well as the education portal "CREA" (Centro de Recursos Educativos Abiertos), which offers more than 1,700 open educational resources for STEM lessons. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 104



5.5 Corporate citizenship In the fifth edition of the Cents4Sense program, employee shareholders around the world were able to donate up to five dividends from their Siemens shares, with the company matching every donation. Since the program began in 2018, it has raised almost €1,280,000 for selected Siemens Stiftung social projects in Africa, Europe, Latin America, and Germany. Corporate commitment to strive for the creation of lasting value for society In fiscal 2023, we delivered a total community investment of €43.2 million, and our people spent more than 36,000 h in volunteer projects as part of their working time. :O: €43.2 million total community investment To evaluate our activities, we measure the achievement of the goals on the basis of the individual underlying targets and against a framework based on the I-O-O-I (input, output, outcome, impact) assessment method. A database and approval tool support the operating units in their efforts and helps to create transparency on a global level. This approach is accompanied by participation in numerous local and national working groups and commissions with the aim of improving the positive impact on society. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 105



Pages 106 - 123 Our sustainability indicators SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 106



6 Our sustainability indicators 1 Does also include allegations of granting benefits (but not taking bribes); time of the alleged misconduct may be in more than one period or may be unspecified. Therefore it can be included in both categories. 2 Includes loss of variable and voluntary compensation elements, transfer and suspension. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 107



6 Our sustainability indicators 3 To be conducted mainly by suppliers from non-OECD countries with a purchasing volume > € 50,000 p.a .. Questionnaires initiated and completed in the year under review. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 108



6 Our sustainability indicators SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 109



6 Our sustainability indicators 4 Change in last year data caused by subsequent adjustment. 5 Emissions out of Siemens Financial Services (SFS) activities in financing fossile energy production projects. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 110



6 Our sustainability indicators 4 Change in last year data caused by subsequent adjustment. 6 Calculated over the entire use phase, analogue Scope 3.11 "Use Phase Emissions". SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 111



6 Our sustainability indicators 4 Change in last year data caused by subsequent adjustment. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 112



6 Our sustainability indicators 4 Change in last year data caused by subsequent adjustment. 7 Analysis of our supply chain based on purchase data by using of a macroeconomic input-output-model also adjusted for inflation. 8 Change in last year data caused by new calculation method. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 113



6 Our sustainability indicators 8 Change in last year data caused by new calculation method. 9 R1, equivalent measures ozone depletion potential. 10 Change in last year data caused by new definition with threshold. 11 Therein 49 hectare of an office location without production in Erlangen/Germany. 12 Full-scale. 13 Based on 3rd party revenue with products. 14 Siemens without SHS. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 114



6 Our sustainability indicators 15 All employee data in this section are based on headcount. 16 Employee refers to every natural person in an active employment relationship with a fully consolidated Siemens company. Employees are all internal workforce without apprentices, students, interns and other internal workforce. 17 Other internal workforce/non-employees according to our financial reporting guidelines (e.g. apprentices, students, interns and other internal workforce). 18 External/third party workers who work in our workforce/contingent workers. 19 Employee structure data are only for employees, without other internal workforce and without external/third party workers. 20 Severely Handicapped Employees-rate (SHE) is based on legally defined guidelines and specifications according §§ 154-1+3 SGB IX (German Social Law). 21 Employees, without other internal workforce and without external workforce. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 115



6 Our sustainability indicators 21 Employees, without other internal workforce and without external workforce. 22 Employment characteristics only for employees, without other internal workforce and without external/third party workers. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 116



6 Our sustainability indicators 23 Employees not covered by collective bargaining agreements, but the organization determines their working conditions and terms of employment based on collective bargaining agreements that cover its other employees or similar agreements. 24 Diversity data only for employees, without other internal workforce and without external/third party workers. 25 Employees in all management positions with disciplinary responsibility, but without Managing Board Members. 26 Employees in top management positions with disciplinary responsibility, but without Managing Board Members. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 117



6 Our sustainability indicators 27 Employees in middle & junior management positions with disciplinary responsibility, but without Managing Board Members. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 118



6 Our sustainability indicators 28 Employees in management positions with disciplinary responsibility, but without Managing Board Members. 29 Hiring rate is defined as the ratio of hirings into Siemens during the fiscal year to the average number of employees. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 119



6 Our sustainability indicators 30 Turnover rate is defined as the ratio of voluntary and involuntary exits from Siemens during the fiscal year to the average number of employees. 31 Voluntary turnover rate is based on employee decision. 32 Involuntary turnover rate is based on other reasons, including dismissals, end of temporary contracts, mutual consent, (early) retirement, death, and other reasons that are not an employee decision. 33 Based on employees with eligibility to share plans. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 120



6 Our sustainability indicators SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 121



6 Our sustainability indicators 34 Excluding CTSI Oncology Solutions. 35 Number of Fatalities x 200,000 / working hours. 36 Fatality Rate w/o contractors. 37 Number of High-consequence injuries x 200,000 / working hours. 38 Number of Recordable injuries x 200,000 / working hours. 39 Number of Lost Time Cases (LTC) x 200,000 / working hours. LTC are accidents that results in at least one lost working day. 40 Due to system change of German Statutory Agency adjusted prior year figures. 41 Realignment due to calculation error in last year. 42 Scope of HM Reporting: Countries >30 employees as well as affiliated companies >30 employees. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 122



6 Our sustainability indicators 42 Scope of HM Reporting: Countries >30 employees as well as affiliated companies >30 employees. 43 Base year 2020 is calculated w/o individual supplier emission data. 44 Year-to-year comparison between fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2023 is limited. The current cycle started in fiscal 2023. 45 In FY 23 the share of relevant revenue was 65% of total revenue Siemens w/o SHS. 46 Where legally possible and reasonable. 47 Number of Lost Time Cases (LTC) x 200,000 / working hours. LTC are accidents that results in at least one lost working day. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 123



Pages 124 - 157 Annex SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 124



7.1 Reporting methodology 7.1 Reporting methodology Sustainability is a fundamental principle that guides our every action. The Sustainability Report 2023 (below, the "Report") supplements our financial reporting for fiscal 2023. The present chapter describes the key elements of our sustainability reporting. Reporting approach The Report explains the strategy, organization, initiatives, programs, management approach, targets, actions, and results of sustainable corporate governance. It supplements the financial reporting provided in the current Annual Report and updates the financial reporting from the previous year. It also documents the progress we have made in implement- ing the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, the United Nations CEO Water Mandate, and the recommen- dations of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). This Report has been prepared in accordance with the Stan- dards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI 2021) and the anti-corruption reporting recommendations of the Global Compact from Transparency International. Our reporting on human rights activities is based on the UN Guiding Principles (UN GP) Reporting Framework and the corresponding guide- lines. Reporting period and Report boundaries This Report refers to the Siemens 2023 fiscal year (October 1, 2022, to September 30, 2023). Any exceptions are indicated as such. In general, the Report covers all our fully consoli- dated companies. As a general rule, minority interests are not included in the Report. Unless otherwise noted, the key indicators and information reported here relate to the com- pany's ongoing operations. Some management approaches do not cover all Siemens entities or parts of the organization. Some parts of the Siemens organization may have intro- duced specific programs or initiatives that differ from the general approaches described in this Report. Nonetheless, they are consistent with the DEGREE sustain- ability framework and the global nonfinancial programs and initiatives at Siemens. Data collection Given the size and worldwide presence of Siemens, data collection poses a logistical challenge. Moreover, our compa- nies throughout the world need to comply with national regulations on the compilation and definition of their key figures, which means that the generated data is not always comparable. Where applicable, we point out any significant limitations in the information presented in the Report. The data presented in this Report is collected via various internal reporting systems, which for the most part are dif- ferent from those used to collect the financial information presented in our consolidated financial statements. In partic- ular, the internal reporting systems used to collect the information presented in this Report may be subject to less stringent internal requirements for documentation, data generation, and auditing, including with respect to the IT systems and controls employed. We reserve the right to change the internal guidelines applicable to the collection of the data published in this Report without prior notice. Due to rounding, some of the numbers presented in this Report may not add up precisely to the totals presented, and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures to which they refer. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 125



7.1 Reporting methodology Methodology, environmental reporting, and collection of environmental data Within our environmental information system, in fiscal 2023 we evaluated 250 reports from locations in all relevant countries where defined threshold values for environmental management parameters like energy usage, resource usage, water consumption, and emissions were exceeded. We use absolute values - for example, energy consumption in giga- joules - to measure and monitor our environmental impacts. We report environmental data for ongoing operations. Values have been extrapolated where applicable (e.g., waste, energy consumption, or emissions) to 100% coverage in order to reflect total consumption. The extrapolation is performed on the basis of the area not covered in the report- ing system. The difference represents a share of 20% for the reporting period. We monitor our environmental impacts at all environmentally relevant office and production sites on the basis of environmental data collected on a quarterly basis. Scope 3 upstream emissions Scope 3 emissions from our supply chain have been calcu- lated using a cross-regional, macroeconomic input-output model based on our volume of purchased goods and services. Scope 3 downstream emissions With regard to Scope 3 downstream emissions, we calculated these emissions in fiscal 2023 in line with the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol, and therefore accounted for and reported the emissions from the use of Siemens offerings sold or investments made in the reporting year over their entire use phase duration. For calculating these emissions, in most cases we apply the global power-mix emissions factor defined by the International Energy Agency (IEA). For calculating the emissions of end products and key compo- nents of end products (intermediate products), we apply the so-called "final product approach" defined in the GHG Protocol. This means that in the case of motors, for example, we take into account their power loss as well as their effective power. If we applied the "intermediate product approach" to all intermediate products - an approach that in the example of motors only takes into account their power loss - the reported emissions would be lower. We include all Kyoto gases in our emissions calculations: carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), and sulphur hexafluoride (SF ). To assess the relevance of GHG emissions other than CO2, they are converted into metric tons of CO2 equivalents (CO2e). This number is based on the global warming potential over 100 years of each of the greenhouse gases compared to the global warming potential of CO2. We follow the financial control approach to consolidate the reporting of emissions. The source of the emissions factors applied in the 2023 reporting year is the "IEA Emissions Factors 2022" published by the International Energy Agency. For example, the global CO2e emissions factor used for electricity generation only is 461 g CO2e/kWh. If regional calculations are available, local emissions factors should be used. Customer Avoided Emissions The description of our methodology for calculating "customer avoided emissions" can be found the Annex on 7 REPORTING PRINCIPLES FOR CUSTOMER AVOIDED EMISSIONS. Methodology, headcount reporting, and collection of employee data Within our global HR reporting, we report headcount num- bers according to our Siemens Corporate Financial Reporting Guidelines. These Guidelines are embedded in our global HR reporting standards and HR reporting landscape system (HRL), which is the basis for employee reporting figures. "Employee" refers to every natural person in an active employment relationship with a fully consolidated Siemens company. Employees are all internal workforce without apprentices, students, interns, and other internal workforce. All employee figures in the Social chapters refer to head- count. For some companies no employee structure data are available due to data delivery by SGATE (Siemens Global Adding Tool for Employees), which is a web-based tool for collecting, storing, and processing headcount figures for companies that are consolidated but for a short time not able to deliver employee structure data. This can lead to minor deviations in breakdown data. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 126



7.1 Reporting methodology Employee turnover is defined as the ratio of voluntary and involuntary exits from Siemens during the fiscal year to the average number of employees. Voluntary turnover rate is based on employee decision, whereas Involuntary turnover rate is based on other reasons, including dismissals, end of temporary contract, mutual consent, (early) retirement, death, and other reasons that are not the employee's decision. Hiring rate is defined as the ratio of hirings into the Siemens group during the fiscal year to the average number of employees. The headcount numbers and rates for employees in management positions include all managers with disci- plinary responsibility, but without Management Board Members (MBM). Independent assurance Our sustainability reporting is subject to high quality stan- dards. Therefore, as in previous years, we commissioned an independent audit firm to conduct a limited assurance of our Sustainability Report 2023. The results of the assurance conducted by Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungs- gesellschaft are presented in the chapter titled "Independent auditor's limited assurance report." Editor's note An effort has been made to use gender-neutral language throughout. Nevertheless, if on occasion the masculine form is used for easier readability, it stands for people of all genders. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 127



7.2 Reporting principles for Customer Avoided Emissions 7.2 Reporting principles for Customer Avoided Emissions For 15 years (until fiscal 2021), we reported the revenue generated from our Environmental Portfolio and the result- ing annual reduction of greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) achieved by our customers on the basis of the internal regu- lations defined in our Environmental Portfolio Guideline. Starting in fiscal 2022, we began to report key figures for sustainable activities, including revenue, in accordance with the new EU Taxonomy regulation. We are also continuing to calculate and report on Customer Avoided Emissions. GHG Use Phase Impact Reporting Guideline The Siemens GHG Use Phase Impact Reporting Guideline sets out basic requirements and guidelines for calculating and reporting emissions associated with the use of products, systems, solutions, and services sold and investments made by Siemens. It covers: -> Scope 3 downstream GHG emissions resulting from the use of sold products (Category 11) and investments (Category 15) according to the GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Standard (GHG Protocol Standard) -> Customer Avoided Emissions (according to Siemens' own methodology The following summary will focus on the second part, the calculation and reporting of Customer Avoided Emissions. Customer Avoided Emissions result either from products, systems, solutions, and/or services sold by Siemens or from investments made by Siemens Financial Services (SFS). Customer Avoided Emissions A company's carbon footprint does not measure the company's contribution to decarbonization by its partners and customers. Although the carbon footprint can indeed reflect emissions reductions resulting from the use of its solutions (Scope 3 downstream emissions) over time, it does not indicate whether these solutions have enabled the customer to achieve lower emissions than an alternative solution (refer- ence scenario). Quantifying the decarbonization impact resulting from the use of the company's products and solu- tions (avoided emissions) helps convey a full picture of the company's contribution to global decarbonization. The term "Customer Avoided Emissions" refers to the "posi- tive" impact determined by comparing the GHG emissions of two different solutions or scenarios. Avoided emissions are emissions that are saved or avoided during the customer use phase from the use of our products or financing compared to a baseline (reference scenario). The guideline used for calculating and reporting Customer Avoided Emissions is based on a methodology defined by Siemens itself due to the lack of a commonly used external definition or standard. It is aligned with the GHG Scope 3 downstream reporting according to the GHG Protocol Standard. Calculation principles The calculation principles are based on the standards "A Cor- porate Accounting and Reporting Standard - Revised Edition" and "GHG Protocol for Project Accounting," both published by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative. These principles are relevance, completeness, consistency, transparency, accuracy, and conservativeness. All Siemens Businesses and SFS are required to apply these principles in order to enable the integrity and credibility of the data and a true and fair presentation of Siemens' Customer Avoided Emissions. Accounting boundaries The accounting boundaries for data on Customer Avoided Emissions only encompass the phase during which a prod- uct, system, solution, or service is used by the customer or the term of an investment. Therefore, GHG emissions occur- ring during other phases of the lifecycle - for instance, in the supply chain, in production, or upon end-of-life disposal - are not included in the calculation. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 128



7.2 Reporting principles for Customer Avoided Emissions Accounting for Customer Avoided Emissions All Siemens Businesses and SFS are required to report the Customer Avoided Emissions for all products, systems, solu- tions, services, or investments that lead to the avoidance of GHG emissions during the customer use phase. Customer Avoided Emissions represent the difference between the GHG emissions of a Siemens offering and the GHG emissions of a baseline or reference scenario. Siemens Businesses and SFS must account for and report the annual Customer Avoided Emissions from the use of Siemens offer- ings sold or investments made in the reporting year over the entire duration of their use phase ("future impact of today's revenue" similar to Scope 3 use phase emissions according to the GHG Protocol Standard). Exclusion criteria: Before calculating Customer Avoided Emissions, all Siemens products, systems, solutions, services, and investments need to be checked against the following exclusion criteria: -> Field of application: No Customer Avoided Emissions may be accounted for and reported in the military use or nuclear power application fields. -> Objections and concerns of external stakeholders: If stakeholders express concerns or objections, internal or external information is evaluated and appropriate mea- sures are taken. -> Adverse effects: If evidence comes to Siemens' attention that a Siemens product, system, solution, service, or investment causes considerably greater adverse environ- mental impacts elsewhere in the element's lifecycle, Customer Avoided Emissions are not calculated. Greenhouse gases considered The accounting for Customer Avoided Emissions includes, where appropriate, all six greenhouse gases defined in the Kyoto Protocol (so-called "Kyoto gases"), including: carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH2), nitrous oxide (N2O), sulfur hexafluoride (SF ), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), and perfluo- rocarbons (PFCs). To assess the relevance of GHG emissions other than CO2, they are converted into metric tons of CO2 equivalents (CO2e). This number is based on the global warming potential over 100 years of the respective greenhouse gas compared to the global warming potential of CO2. Baseline methodology The baseline methodology defined in the guideline refers to the comparison of a Siemens product, system, solution, service, or investment with a reference situation in the absence of the Siemens offering. To enable credibility and avoid overstating the positive effect, the reference scenario has to represent as best as possible the situation that would have occurred without the Siemens solution. -> Before-and-after comparison: Refers to the difference between an initial customer situation and the situation after the implementation of a Siemens offering intended to improve or substitute certain characteristics. This com- parison can be applied, for example, to cases in which a Siemens solution optimizes a building's energy consump- tion. -> Direct comparison with a reference technology: Refers to the difference between the Siemens offering and a comparable other single technology or predecessor with a similar purpose. This comparison may be applied, for example, to new product generations or the electrifi- cation of fossil fuel technologies. -> Comparison with the installed base: Refers to the difference between the Siemens offering and an average market solution used for the same or a similar purpose (market standard). This comparison can be applied, for example, to renewable energy projects by drawing a comparison with the average global greenhouse gas emission factor for electricity generation. Recognition of Customer Avoided Emissions In general, Customer Avoided Emissions are recognized for products, systems, solutions, services, or investments. In many cases, however, Siemens delivers only the components of a complete product, system, solution, service, or invest- ment. In these cases, it is often impossible to directly deter- mine the avoided emissions attributable to the components during the use phase with the customer. Therefore, Siemens Businesses and SFS need to apply the following rules when accounting for and reporting Customer Avoided Emissions: -> Siemens supplies the entire product, system, solution, service, or investment: Siemens accounts for 100% of the Customer Avoided Emissions during the customer use phase. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 129



7.2 Reporting principles for Customer Avoided Emissions -> Siemens provides all core component(s), even if they only represent intermediate products of an end application: Siemens accounts for 100% of the Customer Avoided Emissions during the customer use phase. -> Siemens provides some of the core component(s): In the first step, all core components that are involved with Customer Avoided Emissions are identified. In the second step, the Siemens share of the total Customer Avoided Emissions of the end application is determined by calcu- lating the ratio of Siemens components to the total net delivery price of all core components. -> Siemens does not provide any of the core components of a product, system, solution, service, or investment: Siemens reports no Customer Avoided Emissions. Optional accounting of Customer Avoided Emissions So far, there are no robust calculation approaches to quantify the decarbonization effect of all portfolio elements: for instance, software or automation technology. Some Siemens products, systems, solutions, or services are "enabling tech- nologies" and do not demonstrate a direct decarbonization effect on the product-level. Nevertheless, these enabling technologies can often be critical components needed for the transition to a low-carbon economy. One example are solutions from Smart Infrastructure which can facilitate the system transformation to an electrification of the global energy system. Therefore, quantifying these enabling decar- bonization impacts requires calculation approaches on a system level where these components are built in. Due to the lack of a commonly used external definition or standard, in fiscal 2023 Siemens began to account for these "indirect" or "enabling" decarbonization effects but has decided to report them separately for the purpose of transparency and conser- vativeness. The same accounting principles are applied as described above. With regard to the example from Smart Infrastructure, the calculation to determine the contribution to electrification and therefore decarbonization is based on the total global energy use and the share of electrification and automation solutions from Smart Infrastructure as part of the total global investment in electrification. The eligible revenue, based on the EU Taxonomy, is included in the calculation along with the grid mix evolution of electricity generation. Calculation Siemens Businesses and SFS are required, where applicable, to report Customer Avoided Emissions associated with all products, systems, solutions, services, or investments that lead to the avoidance of emissions in the customer use phase. The amount of Customer Avoided Emissions is the difference between the GHG emissions of the given Siemens offering and the reference scenario defined above. Technical parameters and assumptions The calculation of Customer Avoided Emissions is based on different parameters in order to best reflect the amount of avoided emissions during the entire use phase of a Siemens offering, similar to the calculation of downstream Scope 3 emissions. The calculation parameters (e.g., emission factors or expected use phase duration) should be reviewed and updated regularly in order to reflect the most current status of these numbers. The calculation approach should be consistent with the calculation of downstream Scope 3 emissions (Categories 11 and 15). In some cases, the actual parameters, like the product's operating time or intended intensity of use by the customer, cannot be reliably determined. Under these circumstances, conservative estimates should be applied and documented appropriately. In general, the emissions of the reference scenario and the Siemens offering should include the poten- tial development of the situation over time. The calculation of future emissions from products with long lifespans is subject to a high degree of uncertainty. Using an energy scenario to describe a changing emission factor would lead to incomparable calculation results whenever the scenario is updated. Therefore, we decided to use the annually updated emission factors, which incorporate the changes in the global energy mix from year to year, in a manner consistent with the calculation of our downstream Scope 3 emissions. The source of the emission factors applied in the 2023 reporting year is the "IEA Emission Factors 2022" published by the International Energy Agency. For example, the global CO2e emissions factor used for electricity generation only is 461 g CO2e/kWh. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 130



7.2 Reporting principles for Customer Avoided Emissions If regional calculations are available, local emissions factors should be used. Offerings with no material Customer Avoided Emissions impact, or in cases where the calculation cannot be reliably determined when applying reasonable cost-benefit consid- erations, are not considered in the accounting. Recalculation To enable consistency, especially over time, Siemens Busi- nesses and SFS recalculate the Customer Avoided Emissions in accordance with the guideline. Events that lead to relevant changes in the data on Customer Avoided Emissions typically include corporate mergers, acquisitions, and divestments, mistakes in previous calculations, changes in external stan- dards or in the Siemens calculation methodology, significant changes in the parameters and assumptions applied in the calculation, and any other events that lead to material changes in calculation estimates. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 131



7.3 Our contribution to sustainable development of societies 7.3 Our contribution to sustainable development of societies - Effective influence in achieving UN's Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) - SDGs included in our DEGREE sustainability framework The United Nations' 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and their 169 targets serve as a compass for the change efforts that must be made by governments, busi- nesses, cities, and civil society as a whole if we are to achieve a more sustainable future. The SDGs and their associated targets address the most important economic, social, envi- ronmental, and governance-related challenges of our times, and therefore they help stimulate transformational change. At Siemens we have adopted them as values, and so the SDGs also influence us as a company. Allocation of the SDG goals to Siemens sustainability framework DEGREE 4 BOLCADON AND WELL-BEIM 7 AFTERTABLE AND 12 POLE 13 CHE PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GRALS Decarbonization DECENT WORK AND Employability 10 MIOCID GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING FOR THE DOALS DECINE WEEK AND Equity 17 " PARTNERSAPS FOR THE GOALS DECENT VECES AND O ECONOMIC ERIWTA Resource efficiency AFFORDABLE ANT REDUCED 10 NEDALITIES Ê Ethics 16 PACK JUSTEI FOR THE GOALS DECENT VIORE AND M RESPONSIBLE Governance AME PRODUCTEN MATHERSEPS FIER THE GOALS 17 MAUTNERSHIPS FOR THE DOALS LOBTE NEWT'S 11 &&SMINABLE CITE 14 BELOW WATER 13 9 12 CONSURFTI AND PRODUCTION SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 132



7.3 Our contribution to sustainable development of societies They are firmly associated with our DEGREE sustainability framework, which guides our sustainability management, and they also describe the details of our sustainability ambitions. The long-term priorities for Siemens as part of our sustain- able development agenda are clear: We want to apply our engineering expertise and our approach to connect the real and digital worlds, improve people's quality of life, and protect the planet. In particular, this is supported by our corporate purpose of "We create technology to transform the everyday, for everyone." The UN's 17 SDGs have therefore become fixtures in our everyday business. Siemens deploys its tech- nology portfolio to support the public and private sectors in the digital transformation of industry, building and network infrastructures, mobility, and healthcare and can offer exten- sive business opportunities for value-enhancing growth. At the same time, we provide cost-effective, innovative solutions for the transition to carbon neutrality. These technologies support customers in achieving their objectives while consuming fewer resources. To varying extents, Siemens helps achieve most of the SDGs in the UN's Agenda 2030 in four important ways: -> through our products and solutions, -> by doing business responsibly, -> through our expertise and thought leadership, and -> through our corporate citizenship activities and community engagement. How we contribute to achieving the SDGs From a global perspective, these are the SDGs where Siemens has a high or medium impact: 3 GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING Goal 3 - Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages We make a significant impact on SDG 3 with our business portfolio, especially through SHS and the production tech- nologies we provide to pharmaceutical companies. In addition to the impact of our portfolio, we also care about the health and safety of our people and contract workers. Separately from SHS, Siemens sets ambitious goals for access to Employee Assistance Programs and for reducing employee accident rates (Lost time injury frequency rate - LTIFR). We also participate in health-related community engagement activities like cancer awareness campaigns and mobile clinics. QUALITY Goal 4 - Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning oppor- tunities for all 4 EDUCATION Lifelong learning is a basic prerequisite for ensuring employ- ability for our people and in the job market in general. We offer access to education in multiple ways, including learn- ing and education opportunities for all our people, as well as vocational and more advanced training through partnerships with schools and universities. Education for our customers and suppliers is likewise high on our agenda. We also aim to inspire young people to pursue careers in STEM fields (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) with our numerous corporate citizenship activities around the world. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 133



7.3 Our contribution to sustainable development of societies GENDER EQUALITY 5 Goal 5 - Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls We firmly believe that promoting diversity in the workforce serves the interests of both society and Siemens itself. Diversity reinforces our innovative strength, unleashes employee potential, and directly contributes to our business success. Our human resources management also supports a transformation in top management, where there is room for improvement. We are recruiting more women for top mana- gerial positions and are including more women in network- ing activities, trainings, and mentoring programs. Without SHS, Siemens aims to have 30% of its top management positions worldwide filled by women by 2025. 7 AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY Goal 7 - Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable, and modern energy for all Our business portfolio covers the entire spectrum of applica- tions for modern smart grids and energy distribution systems. The rapid expansion of decentralized energy structures powered by Siemens technology creates a more diverse energy mix and improves the security of the energy supply. The Internet of Things and data-based technologies foster energy intelligence and pave the way toward a sustainable energy landscape. Our technologies facilitate access to clean, reliable, low-carbon energy. 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH Goal 8 - Promote sustained, inclusive and sus- tainable economic growth, full and productive employment, and decent work for all Siemens is committed globally to the New Normal Working Model. Our aim with the new normal is for all our people around the world to be able to work on a mobile basis two to three days a week, wherever feasible and reasonable. Mobile working has many advantages for the individual and also for the company: for instance, by ensuring that we are prepared to respond flexibly during future crises. Our worldwide business operations and our position as a thought leader mean that in many countries we contribute toward the growth of the gross domestic product (GDP). We are committed to offering attractive jobs and facilitating employment, and we are encouraging the decoupling of economic growth from energy consumption. INDUSTRY, INNOVATION 9 AND INFRASTRUCTURE Goal 9 - Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization, and foster innovation As a global technology company and innovation leader in electrification, automation, and digitalization, Siemens supports sustainable industrialization. With our engineering expertise, our knowledge of numerous sectors, and our digital technology, we help our business partners across the entire value chain, from design to production, and from operations to maintenance. We believe in international partnerships as the key to innovation. A large percentage of our customers and suppliers are small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). We have officially adopted sustainability as an additional strategic imperative for our investment decisions. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 134



7.3 Our contribution to sustainable development of societies 11 SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES Goal 11 - Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient, and sustainable Siemens is a trusted partner for municipal governments and offers solutions across all infrastructure domains to make cities more efficient, sustainable, and resilient - for instance, with intelligent transportation solutions, efficient and safe buildings, and smart-city initiatives that leverage the power of digitalization. 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION Goal 12 - Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns Siemens is committed to using resources responsibly and recognizes that the circular economy offers highly beneficial opportunities for business, the environment, and society. By the end of this decade we want to evolve even more toward the circular economy, for example by increasing the percent- age of metals and plastics we procure as secondary materials. We also aim to reduce our amount of landfill waste. Siemens has worldwide strategic initiatives for the design phase to the end of lifecycle of its products and operations, and is committed to robust, ecologically friendly design. We apply disruptive technologies and innovative business models to make an active contribution to the circular economy. 13 CLIMATE ACTION Goal 13 - Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts Our portfolio helps our customers reduce their emissions and thereby achieve their decarbonization goals. Siemens was one of the world's first industrial firms to commit to making its own business activities carbon neutral by 2030. In addition to reducing emissions from Siemens' operations without SHS by 55% by 2025 and by 90% by 2030, we also strive to lower all emissions associated with us - from our supply chain throughout the entire use phase of our prod- ucts. Siemens without SHS is committed to a 20% reduction in emissions in its supply chain by 2030 compared to 2020 and aims to achieve a CO2 neutral supply chain by 2050. With its commitment to science-based targets, Siemens supports the goal of the Paris Climate Agreement to limit climate change to 1.5℃ (Science-Based Target Initiative, including SHS). 16 PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS Goal 16 - Promote peaceful and inclusive societ- ies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all, and build effective, accountable, and inclusive institutions at all levels We anchor integrity and compliance throughout our company and advance the Siemens Integrity Initiative with external stakeholders. By these means and through our activities with other players, we support fair competition and ensure our company's long-term success. Siemens is committed to incorporating the requirements of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the Human Rights Declaration, and all other relevant regulations into our supply chain and to pro- moting their principles through our work with external organizations and institutions. 17 PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS Goal 17 - Strengthen the means of implementa- tion and revitalize the Global Partnership for Sustainable Development As a global company and an advocate of free trade, we believe that partnerships are a key to sustainable develop- ment and to our company's success. We also recognize the importance of digitalization, project financing, and public- private partnerships for sustainable development. In all of these areas, we are partnering with international organiza- tions, business organizations, think tanks, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and academia, including the UNGC, World Economic Forum (WEF), econsense, Transparency International, and numerous universities. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 135



7.4 Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 7.4 Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) The G20 Financial Stability Board's Task Force on Climate- Related Financial Disclosure provides a uniform framework that companies can voluntarily use to report their climate- related risks and opportunities and disclose the correspond- ing information to investors, lenders, insurers, and other stakeholders. This Annex provides an overview of Siemens' activities based on these recommendations and offers refer- ences to other sources of relevant information. Our governance in the area of climate action Governance at the Managing Board level At Siemens, sustainability is rooted in all that we do, includ- ing our business purpose and strategy, corporate culture, processes, and guidelines. The management of sustainability matters is embedded across our Siemens businesses, Service and Governance units, and countries. Sustainability has also been an integral component of management compensation since fiscal 2020. Put simply, we strive to make sustainability everyone's responsibility at Siemens. As the top management body, the Managing Board is responsible for serving the company's best interests and for achieving sustainable growth in company value. The Managing Board members are responsible for the entire management of the company and decide on key issues of business policy and corporate strategy. The Supervisory Board oversees and advises the Managing Board in its management of the company's business. The Supervisory Board meets regularly to discuss business devel- opment, planning, strategy, and the implementation of that strategy. In 2023, we significantly strengthened our sustainability organization throughout the company by introducing the Sustainability Executive Committee (EC SUS) and Heads of Sustainability in key businesses and business units, and we increased the responsibility of the Global Head of Sustain- ability (Global Head of SUS) and the Siemens Sustainability department. The Managing Board addresses sustainability-related risks and opportunities of strategic and company-wide impor- tance and adopts appropriate measures. The Managing Board also approves any changes to the DEGREE sustainability framework. The Siemens Sustainability Board (SSB) monitors and resolves Siemens' sustainability topics, including tracking the progress of our DEGREE ambition, providing input and guidance on sustainability reporting, and acting as a catalyst for regional sustainability initiatives with the potential to scale across Siemens. The SSB is composed of representa- tives from Siemens' businesses, countries, and Service and Governance units. The SSB meets four times per year or more frequently as needed. The SSB provides updates and recommendations to the Managing Board. Topics associated with climate change appeared regularly on the agenda of EC SUS and SSB meetings in fiscal 2023 and included, for example, our Net Zero Operations Program implementation or product-related decarbonization efforts. The Sustainability Executive Committee (EC SUS) acts as guidance body for Siemens sustainability business - the Siemens portfolio that enables positive sustainability impact by addressing and financing (i) decarbonization and energy efficiency, (ii) resource efficiency and circularity as well as (iii) people centricity and social impact - with a focus on portfolio market segments and go-to-market topics, and it meets on an ad hoc basis to discuss relevant subjects. Chaired by Siemens' CEO, the EC SUS includes Siemens' CSO, the CEOs of key businesses, Chief Strategy Officer, General Counsel, and Global Head of SUS. The Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO) oversees Siemens' sustainability topics. The CSO is a member of the Siemens Managing Board, chairs the Siemens Sustainability Board (SSB), and is a member of the Sustainability Executive Com- mittee (EC SUS). The CSO is also responsible for the Siemens Sustainability department. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 136



7.4 Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) In addition to our strategic sustainability activities, the CSO ensures that we operate in compliance with our environ- mental guidelines. Our EHS Principles serve as internal binding guidelines for this purpose. Siemens has also founded expert panels to ensure that environmental consid- erations are integral to our decision-making. The Global Board EHS is composed of subject-matter experts who develop environmental protection measures and programs and provide advice to the Chief People and Sustainability Officer in consultation with the Siemens Sustainability Board. 7 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE AND ORGANIZATION, CDP 2023 C1, 7 OUR DEGREE SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK Governance at the business and management levels The Global Head of Sustainability (Global Head of SUS) leads the Siemens Sustainability department. In this capacity, the Global Head of SUS reports to the CSO on all Siemens sustainability topics excluding sustainability business and related strategy topics. For the latter topics, the Global Head of SUS reports to Siemens' CEO. The Global Head of SUS is a regular member of the SSB. The Global Head of SUS regularly informs the Supervisory Board on sustainability matters. The Siemens Sustainability department is responsible for developing our DEGREE sustainability framework in coordi- nation with the SSB, businesses, Service and Governance units, and countries and controlling the DEGREE target achievements. Responsibility for sustainability reporting and the Net Zero Operations Program also lies with the Sustain- ability department. It also governs the purchase of carbon offsets and the Sustainability Risk Due Diligence Process. The Sustainability department also supports sustainability initia- tives with scalability across Siemens. This includes developing the processes, training, and tools needed to address over- arching sustainability topics for our countries, businesses, and Service and Governance units in collaboration with other Siemens organizations. Finally, the Sustainability department is responsible for developing strategic considerations for the Siemens sustainability business in alignment with the Managing Board, EC SUS, and the CEOs. CEOs are ultimately responsible for all sustainability topics in their area of responsibility. This includes responsibility for the sustainability business, implementation of DEGREE, sustainability reporting, the Sustainability Risk Due Diligence Process, and other related responsibilities. The CEOs of Digital Industries, Smart Infrastructure, Siemens Mobility, and Siemens Financial Services (SFS) are supported by their respective Heads of SUS to achieve their sustainabil- ity mandates. The Heads of SUS also assist the Global Head of SUS with their responsibilities in the Sustainability depart- ment, as they pertain to their businesses. Heads of SUS have a governance reporting line to the Global Head of SUS in addition to their reporting line to their respective CEOs. The Heads of SUS are appointed by the respective CEOs, in align- ment with the Global Head of SUS. In addition, the CEOs of the business units in Digital Industries, Smart Infrastructure, Siemens Mobility, and SFS each appoint Sustainability Managers who have a governance reporting line to the Heads of SUS and to their reporting line to their respective CEOs. Lead Country SUS Managers support their respective Lead Country CEOs and their assigned countries. They also lead Siemens' sustainability topics within the scope of responsi- bility of the Lead Country management. Our Service and Governance units are responsible for the ongoing development of sustainability-related topics within their own mandate in line with the DEGREE sustainability framework and regulatory and organizational requirements. Lastly, Sustainability Risk Due Diligence Subject Matter Experts are appointed by and support Digital Industries, Smart Infrastructure, Siemens Mobility, and SFS to responsibly conduct the Sustainability Risk Due Diligence Process. Siemens' Environmental Council assesses Siemens' environ- mental risks, opportunities, and trends based on uniform criteria and reports them to the Siemens Enterprise Risk Management. The council is composed of environmental experts from our business units and countries as well as experts in corporate governance, environmental protection, supply chain, sustainability, finance, technology, real estate, and insurance. 7 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE AND ORGANIZATION, 7 SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTICES, 7 ENVIORNMENT, 7 CONSERVING RESOURCES, ICDP 2023 C1, 7 OUR DEGREE SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 137



7.4 Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Our strategic response to climate-related opportunities and risks The DEGREE sustainability framework includes the sustain- ability-related topics important for Siemens, including decarbonization and resource efficiency, for which we have set ambitious targets (see paragraph "Metrics and targets"). These targets, in conjunction with our overall Science-Based Targets initiative-validated (SBTi) decarbonization target, apply to Siemens' own operations and to our upstream and downstream value chain. We have officially adopted sustainability as an additional strategic imperative for our investment decisions. Siemens is a leading technology company with a portfolio designed to drive the digital and sustainable transformation of industry, infrastructure, mobility, and healthcare. We firmly believe that technology is the answer to creating a sustainable future. As key pillars of our strategy, digitalization and sustainability help future-proof our business and that of our customers. To further increase our positive impact, we believe that working in ecosystems is the best way to jointly create seam- less solutions for our customers and their specific challenges. Siemens' business is focused on enabling customers to achieve a positive sustainability and climate-related impact along the following value propositions: Decarbonization & energy efficiency We support our customers with their efforts to decarbonize their infrastructure and operations, drive energy efficiency, and future-proof entire industries. We do this by offering products, systems, solutions, and services that are based on our strategic focus on digitalization, electrification, and automation. For example, our energy-efficient products and solutions support the transition from fossil fuels to renew- able energy sources, and our electrification solutions enable renewable grid integration and the electrification of heat and hydrogen. Across industries, we offer energy optimiza- tion and carbon footprint management throughout our products' lifecycles and supply chains. In buildings, we offer energy efficiency and decarbonization solutions, such as smart buildings and smart energy management for a reduced carbon footprint. Our rail systems offer low-carbon mobility and increased energy efficiency. Resource efficiency & circularity Through their use of our digital technology, our customers can achieve resource efficiency and profitability. For instance, we harness digitalization to reduce the require- ments of physical assets and resources. We combine the real and the digital worlds with our digital twin technology, a virtual representation of a physical product or process that is used to simulate, predict, and optimize its physical counter- part. Digital twins enable users to do more with fewer resources and make current and future environmental foot- prints transparent. Our building solutions also contribute to optimized space utilization and ultimately increase resource efficiency. Our mobility solutions focus on enhanced net- work capacity and extended lifecycles. 7 STRATEGY, 7 OUR DEGREE SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK Climate-related opportunities and risks Climate-related opportunities and risks are integrated into our company-wide Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process. ERM at Siemens is based on a net risk approach in which the risks and opportunities are addressed that remain after implementing existing, effective measures and controls. As a global technology company and innovation leader in the fields of electrification, automation, and digitalization, Siemens supports sustainable industrialization. These topics are becoming increasingly important in the transition to a low-carbon economy - a development that confirms our company strategy. Although there are uncertainties about the impact of climate-related changes, we consider the transition to a low-carbon economy as an opportunity. A favorable political and regulatory environment including the transition towards a low-carbon economy could restore a more positive industrial investment sentiment that supports the growth of our markets. In addition, government initia- tives and subsidies (including tax reforms, green and digital recovery plans, R&D among others) lead to more government spending (e.g. infrastructure, healthcare, mobility or digita- lization investments) and may ultimately result in an oppor- tunity for us to participate in ways that increase our revenue and profit. Investments to strengthen countries' resilience, energy and food security, as well as to diversify value chains close to major markets (reshoring, nearshoring) can present opportunities to businesses. By enabling our customers to reduce their greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions using our portfolio and by reducing CO2e emissions in our own opera- tions, Siemens strives to support the transition towards a SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 138



7.4 Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) low-carbon economy. Siemens also welcomes and supports recent legislative and governmental measures to accelerate the mitigation of climate change, especially in Europe such as through the Green Deal or sustainable finance initiatives. SIEMENS FINANCIAL REPORT FOR FISCAL 2023, COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT, CHAPTER 8.4 OPPORTUNITIES, [ CDP 2023 C2.4 To leverage these climate-related opportunities, we again included sustainability and decarbonization in this year's strategy review, in which we formulated concrete action plans for our business units in order to support our customers in achieving their sustainability and decarbonization goals in an even more targeted fashion. Potential transition risks (e.g., regulation, market, and tech- nology) and physical climate-related risks are assessed in our risk process. In this process, we have generally identified the risk of an increasing sustainability focus. Governments around the world continue to increase their focus on sustain- ability topics, resulting in the risk of increased costs to comply with new laws and related reporting requirements. In addition, increasing stakeholder and investor focus on sustainability topics brings reputational risk should our sus- tainability commitments, targets and activities be perceived as a deceptive use of green marketing or otherwise not credible. Climate change litigation has become a worldwide phenomenon with a corresponding risk to Siemens as a large corporation. We address these risks in a variety of ways including through our sustainability framework DEGREE, in which we have set ambitious sustainability targets. DEGREE includes measures to reduce our carbon footprint along with other initiatives addressing ESG topics more generally. We have implemented an ESG due diligence process that supports Siemens businesses with due diligence in the customer-oriented environment with a view to possible environmental and social risks as well as related human rights and reputational risks. Finally, we believe our overall portfolio is very well positioned to meet the current and future sustainability needs of our customers and the societies in which we operate. SIEMENS FINANCIAL REPORT FOR FISCAL 2023, COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT, CHAPTER 8.3 RISKS, [ CDP 2023 C2.3 Analysis of climate-related scenarios Different climate-related scenarios are used at Siemens for different purposes: for instance, for our business strategy and decarbonization strategy and to identify opportunities and risks. Our decarbonization target, which is approved by the Science-Based Targets initiative, is aligned with the 1.5°C target and therefore the Paris Agreement. As described in our 7 STRATEGY chapter, there are several megatrends that are driving us to rethink established ways of doing things. These megatrends and their impacts are reshaping the needs of our customers and markets. To create a holistic picture of potential futures, we execute sustainabil- ity scenario analyses that enable us to map impacts and risks, identify opportunities, and find new ways to create value through pathways by 2030 and 2040. Strategic insights are derived from scientific frameworks like the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's (IPCC) Repre- sentative Concentration Pathways (RCPs) and Shared Socio- economic Pathways (SSPs) as well as market trends and expert knowledge. The sustainability scenarios illustrate different possible development pathways for the global economy and Siemens' operating environment, across the focus topics climate, circularity, biodiversity, and society that take into account both an organized 1.5℃ and a disorganized 3ºC pathway. These scenarios guide the development of our sustainability strategy. By providing innovative technologies, we see ourselves as a leading decarbonization partner to our customers and society in general. To fulfill this role, we need to have a precise understanding of the technological changes that must be made in the next few decades and beyond. We rely primarily on scenarios from S&P Global (formerly IHS Markit), IEA, and BloombergNEF to plan our business strategy and identify company-wide risks and opportunities. These scenarios help us, for example, to identify trends in the energy and mobility markets. For business planning purposes, we apply different scenarios like the S&P Global Green Rules (our baseline scenario), Inflections, and two net zero scenarios (ACCS, MTM); and IEA STEPS, APS, NZE, and BloombergNEF New Energy Outlook (Economic Transition Scenario, net zero scenario). These scenarios help us predict market developments, assess the implications of various scenarios, and make business decisions on this basis. With a view to our own business, analyzing climate-related scenarios allows us to predict the potential consequences in terms of regulatory requirements, R&D, and customer trends and requirements. Our business units also conduct business-specific scenario analyses. CDP 2023 C3.2 SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 139



7.4 Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) We also apply different climate scenarios to assess physical climate-related risks and opportunities (see paragraph "Management of climate risks in our own operations"). Our risk management approach to climate- related opportunities and risks Climate-related risks and opportunities are embedded in the Siemens-wide ERM approach. All identified climate risks are assessed and measures for risk prevention, transfer, or miti- gation are devised for all relevant risks. Risk management at Siemens builds on a comprehensive, interactive and management-oriented Enterprise Risk Man- agement (ERM) approach that is integrated into the organi- zation and that addresses both risks and opportunities. Our ERM process aims for early identification and evaluation of, and response regarding, risks and opportunities that could materially affect the achievement of our strategic, opera- tional, financial, and compliance objectives. The time horizon is typically three years, and we take a net risk approach, addressing risks and opportunities remaining after the execution of existing and effective measures and controls. A detailed description of our enterprise risk management basic principles and process can be found in our combined management report, chapter 8.2 Risk management. SIEMENS FINANCIAL REPORT FOR FISCAL 2023, COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT, CHAPTER 8, [ CDP 2023 C2 Climate risks in the risk management system The consideration of sustainability and climate-related risks and opportunities is an integral part of our regular top-down process that communicates material issues and trends at risk workshops to the relevant company units so they can identify risks and opportunities. As a result, issue-related recommen- dations are available to all businesses at their quarterly reviews. In fiscal 2023, several climate-related topics were on the agenda of the top-down process, which then provided input to the annual ERM process on topics that included physical climate risks, increasing regulation, and the trans- parency of environmental product data. In conjunction with the bottom-up approach, these measures enable a comprehensive overview of our business activities and the related risks and opportunities. Climate change is not treated as a separate category in the ERM approach; it is considered within the four topic areas of strategic, operational, financial, and compliance-related risks. Risk processes have been implemented upstream throughout the company to assess potential climate-related net risks for ERM reporting. Material opportunities and risks are disclosed on an aggre- gated basis within the abovementioned four topic areas in the Siemens annual report. SIEMENS FINANCIAL REPORT FOR FISCAL 2023, COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT, CHAPTER 8, [ CDP 2023 C2.1 AND C2.2 Management of climate risks in our own operations Climate change mitigation We have set ambitious decarbonization targets that apply to Siemens' own operations and to our upstream and down- stream value chain (see paragraph "Metrics and targets"). The reduction of GHG emissions in our own operations is integrated into Long-term Incentive (LTI) compensation as part of an internal Siemens ESG/Sustainability Index that is applicable to members of the Managing Board and senior management (Siemens without SHS). Anchoring the reduc- tion of GHG emissions in this system and the responsibility of each of our businesses for reducing its prorated emissions are key elements of our management approach and require regular monitoring. 7 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE AND ORGANIZATION Climate change adaptation We continuously evaluate the vulnerability of all Siemens locations regarding acute physical risks based on assess- ments provided by external suppliers and data collected internally. Through recurrent analyses conducted by Global Risk Consultants on behalf of TÜV Süd, it is evident that the Siemens locations significantly surpass industry standards in terms of risk protection as per the respective insurer ratings (industry average: approximately 70, Siemens: approxi- mately 80). Consequently, Siemens locations are consistently characterized by notably low risk levels. We continuously conduct local risk assessments and collaborate closely with various stakeholders to ensure an adequate protection level. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 140



7.4 Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Furthermore, during this fiscal year, we conducted compre- hensive global training sessions, featuring the participation of qualified external specialists, aimed at strengthening our business continuity management and standardizing our business impact analysis, particularly in the context of natural hazards. These initiatives also consider anticipated changes in risk exposures due to climate change. Our decision-making process for selecting new locations and devising sustainable, long-term protective measures is based on an exhaustive risk analysis, with a particular emphasis on natural hazards. This includes an in-depth examination and modeling of current risk factors and future climate scenarios, facilitating the formulation of proactive measures. In addi- tion to the assessment of physical risks, we engage in transparent dialogues with partners to comprehensively evaluate transitional risks, such as regulatory changes, thereby encompassing associated risks and opportunities. We employ a range of systems and meticulously compare the parameters acquired from Swiss RE (RDS), Zurich Resilience Solutions (ZRS), Verizon Maplecroft, among others. In fiscal 2023, we conducted the Do No Significant Harm (DNSH) assessment with regards to future physical climate risks in the context of our reporting under the EU Taxonomy regulation for all activities related to the environmental objective "Climate Change Mitigation". The assessment of physical climate-related risks of all eligible and substantially contributing activities was conducted by technical experts on site, supplier, and project type levels. We partnered with insurers and other external risk data providers to assess future hazards associated with climate change, e.g. cyclone, hurricane, typhoon, heavy precipitation, or wildfire, using the IPCC scenario RCP 4.5. Additionally, we defined and started to implement measures at locations where signifi- cant risks have been identified. Climate change is also having an impact on water supply. Water is one of humanity's most important resources. For this reason, Siemens has been analyzing water scarcity, water pollution, local fire risks, climate change, and flooding and precipitation patterns at our sites for several years. We consider these analyses in our business decisions: for example, when we select the location for a new site or implement precautionary measures. We establish water targets at multiple sites to account for the specific local environment and to drive effective mitiga- tion measures. At the corporate level, we have implemented a defined water strategy, and have conducted risk assess- ments to shape local water targets. The aim of our water strategy is to minimize the adverse local effects of our water consumption and use. In fiscal 2022, we expanded the analysis of our water-related risks to include our supply chain. Based on this analysis, we derived further measures for sustainable water use. Our water risk analysis begins with an assessment of our environmentally relevant sites using the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas from the World Resources Institute (WRI). With the aid of an internal analytical tool, Siemens assesses local-level risks resulting from our sites' activities, and then assesses them in relation to regional water risks. Sites with a high-risk assessment need to define targets to reduce the level of risk. In fiscal 2023, 96% of our sites implemented this water strategy. 7 CONSERVING RESOURCES, CDP 2023 C2, [ CDP 2023 WATER SECURITY Management of climate risks along our value chain Climate change mitigation In addition to our Science-Based Target, we defined a target in the DEGREE sustainability framework for our upstream Scope 3 emissions: Siemens without Siemens Healthineers (SHS) has set a target to reduce CO2e emissions generated in our supply chain by 20% by 2030 compared to 2020. We also aim to achieve Net Zero emissions in our supply chain by 2050. Details on our upstream Scope 3 emissions in fiscal 2023 can be found in the chapter 7 SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTICES. In our Carbon Reduction@Suppliers program, we collaborate with an external partner to analyze the economic data and model the carbon footprint of each of our suppliers. To facilitate this process, we utilize a web-based tool called supplier+s that highlights the main sources of suppliers' CO2e emissions and provides guidance on how to reduce them. Once suppliers have completed the learning phase, they provide us with their primary data through the tool. 7 CONSERVING RESOURCES, 7 SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTICES SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 141



7.4 Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) To make our portfolio's contribution to decarbonization more transparent, we report the amount of CO2e emissions that our products and solutions avoid compared to reference solutions. Customer avoided emissions represent the differ- ence between the CO2e emissions of a Siemens offering and the CO2e emissions of a baseline or reference scenario. In fiscal 2023, we helped our customers avoid 190 million metric tons of CO2e emissions. The Siemens technologies that make the largest contribution to the avoidance of CO2e emissions at our customers are frequency converters, railbound passenger and freight transportation, and building systems. For a detailed description of our methodology for calculating customer avoided emissions, please see 7 REPORTING PRINCIPLES FOR CUSTOMER AVOIDED EMISSIONS, 7 CLIMATE ACTION We also invested €6.2 billion (compared to €5.6 billion in fiscal 2022) in research and development activities that are geared towards developing innovative and sustainable solu- tions for Siemens' customers and businesses, while simul- taneously strengthening our competitive positioning. This is also how we contribute to society. 7 COMPANY PROFILE Climate change adaptation We analyze potential risks in our supply chain, including environmental risks. We centralize sustainability-related data about our suppliers on the SCM Sustainability Platform, which enables us to gather information from diverse internal and external sources. This includes data on carbon reduction initiatives, corporate responsibility self-assessments (CRSA), on-site audit results, and risks associated with conflict minerals. All employees in Siemens' purchasing departments can access this integrated tool. 7 SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTICES Metrics and targets Siemens considers climate-related risks and opportunities along the entire value chain. Accordingly, we define metrics for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the supply chain, in the company's own operations, and in the goods and services we provide to our customers. Our validated 1.5℃ Science-Based Target, along with our DEGREE decarbonization targets and our membership in the RE100, EV100, and EP100 initiatives, is strengthening our climate protection strategy. 7 CLIMATE ACTION, CDP 2023 C3, C4, C6, C7, C9 AND C12 Science-Based Target By joining the Science-Based Targets initiative (SBTi), Siemens has pledged to reduce emissions from its own operations (Scope 1 and 2) by 50% and its value chain (Scope 3) by 15% by 2030 compared to 2019. Our commit- ment to the SBTi is aimed at aligning our business activities with the 1.5℃ decarbonization pathway under the terms of recognized climate models to ensure that our greenhouse gas emissions will be consistent with the Paris Climate Agreement's 1.5°℃ target. DEGREE targets As part of our DEGREE sustainability framework (without Siemens Healthineers), we set a goal for all Siemens production facilities and buildings worldwide and our vehicle fleet to achieve a Net Zero carbon footprint by 2030. In effect, this means reducing Scope 1 and 2 CO2e emissions in Siemens' business operations for Siemens without Siemens Healthineers (SHS) by 90% by 2030, compared to 2019. To achieve this target, Siemens has pledged to invest an additional €650 million in its own decarbonization efforts by 2030. Any residual emissions will then be balanced with high-quality carbon offsets that meet established standards. To drive additional transparency on our journey to 2030, we set an ambitious interim reduction target for our business operations at Siemens without SHS of 55% by 2025 com- pared to 2019. For scope 3 emissions, Siemens (without Siemens Healthineers) has set a target to reduce CO2e emissions generated in our supply chain by 20% by 2030 compared to 2020. We also aim to achieve Net Zero emissions in our supply chain by 2050. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 142



7.4 Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Our ambitious decarbonization measures and targets in our own operations and along our value chain are helping elim- inate potential transitional climate risks and increasing our resilience and the energy independence of our production facilities. 7 CLIMATE ACTION, [ CDP 2023 C4 AND C6 Eco Efficiency @ Siemens program Our Eco Efficiency @ Siemens program addresses environ- mental factors specific to our products, systems, solutions, and services and our production. It also defines objectives for improving our environmental management: for example, by encouraging a circular economy and generally demateri- alizing our business processes. The program has three components: 1) Robust Eco Design (RED) approach: At the center of the Responsible Product Development program component is our Robust Eco Design approach. Our Eco Design approach is also embedded in the field of action Resource efficiency in our DEGREE sustainability framework. The program intends to introduce methods and rules for dema- terialization along the entire value chain. Our aim has been to intensify the use of lifecycle assessments (LCAs) and environmental product declarations (EPDs), which will allow us to identify environmentally compatible design alternatives that take circularity into account and can be integrated into product specifications. Our ambi- tion is to apply the RED approach to all relevant products, systems, solutions, and services by 2030. This is associ- ated with our goal to increase the number of LCAs and EPDs available. 2) Clean Supply Chain: Building on the RED phase demate- rialization, the Clean Supply Chain category in the Eco Efficiency @ Siemens program maps our path to decou- pling natural resource use from our economic growth. That is why we will increasingly source secondary mate- rials and take action to replace regulated substances according to IEC 62474. We want to proportionately increase our procurement of secondary metal and resins by 2030. To achieve this, we are concentrating on suppliers of raw materials and semifinished products that can be directly influenced by our purchasing specifications. 3) Efficient Own Operations: The component Efficient Own Operations of our Eco Efficiency @ Siemens program aims to reduce the environmental impact of our sites through dematerialization and circular economy princi- ples. We focus on improving our energy efficiency and reducing the environmental impact of the waste we generate. When it comes to environmentally responsible energy use, we focus on reducing emissions from power generation in addition to minimizing energy consump- tion itself. As part of our commitment, we aim to improve our overall energy efficiency by 10% by 2030 compared to 2021. To calculate energy efficiency, we analyze our energy consumption in relation to sales development. 7 CONSERVING RESOURCES, 7 PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 143



7.5 GRI Standards - key topics and boundaries 7.5 GRI Standards - key topics and boundaries Result of the assessment of organizational impacts (inside-out, i.e., on the environment and society), stakeholder relevance and business criticality (outside-in). The detailed GRI Standard Index 2021 is available on our Sustainability website. 1 Top 2 material sustainability topics. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 144



7.5 GRI Standards - key topics and boundaries 1 Top 2 material sustainability topics. Result of the assessment of organizational impacts (inside-out, i.e., on the environment and society), stakeholder relevance and business criticality (outside-in). The detailed GRI Standard Index 2021 is available on our Sustainability website. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 145



7.6 WEF IBC Metric 7.6 WEF IBC Metric SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 146



7.6 WEF IBC Metric SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 147



7.6 WEF IBC Metric SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 148



7.6 WEF IBC Metric SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 149



7.7 SASB - Electrical Electronic Equipment Index 7.7 SASB - Electrical Electronic Equipment Index SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 150



7.7 SASB - Electrical Electronic Equipment Index SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 151



7.8 United Nations CEO Water Mandate 7.8 United Nations CEO Water Mandate Progress report Siemens became a signatory to the United Nations CEO Water Mandate in 2008. We are continuing to support the Mandate in two ways: by managing water efficiently at our own facilities and by providing solutions that help our customers handle water and wastewater more efficiently. Our own activities We are continuing to implement the approach to water resource management that we developed in 2012. This includes monitoring factors like water scarcity, water pollution, flooding, environmental fire risks, and consequences of climate change as well as performing site-specific risk analyses. Individual goals and measures are defined for locations with high water-related risks. This approach minimizes the site-specific adverse impacts of our water consumption by taking into account local risks like water scarcity, water pollution, and flooding in environmentally sensitive areas. You can find out more about conserving resources and water consumption at Siemens' locations in the 7 ENVIRONMENT section of this report. We use resources carefully. For example, Siemens India has implemented sustainable water management by applying various measures, including utilizing water-efficient appli- ances, installing rainwater harvesting system at four major factory locations, and building water reclamation facilities (zero liquid discharge facilities) that enable us to reduce freshwater consumption and use treated water for landscaping and toilet flushing. Our supply chain partners The environmental protection requirements for our supply chain partners are set out in the Siemens Group Code of Conduct for Siemens Suppliers and Third Party Intermediaries. More information on these requirements and on supply chain management is available in the 7 SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTICES section of this report. Our customers We support our customers with water management solu- tions, including the following. Leak detection Non-revenue water not only impacts the economic perfor- mance of water supply companies; it also increases pressure on natural water resources, because more water is produced and processed than is actually needed. Thanks to our techno- logical innovations, Siemens can detect leaks with the help of AI. Leaks in the pipeline network were responsible for about 10% of the water supplied by the Swedish water company VA SYD that never reached consumers. With SIWA LeakPlus, VA SYD now relies on artificial intelligence (AI) to detect and repair leaks in its water distribution networks. Virtual process control system Thanks to implementing cutting-edge process control tech- nology at the waste management company EGLV (Emscher Genossenschaft & Lippe Verband), the customer was able not only to save operational costs but also to contribute to the renaturation of the Emscher and Lippe River basins through sustainable wastewater management. Partnerships to reduce water loss In line with our pledge to be an agile and active market leader, we go beyond traditional distributorships and increasingly rely on collaborations in a variety of areas. We've signed collaboration agreements with component manufacturers like Hach Analytics and with global players like Acciona (desalination) and young entrepreneurs like BuntPlanet (digital portfolio). This is how our company and our partners will be able to meet our customers' require- ments and offer them a comprehensive, innovative product and system portfolio, a local presence worldwide, and our usual high quality while also remaining cost-effective. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 152



7.8 United Nations CEO Water Mandate Social commitment Through our memberships in international organizations, we participate in numerous initiatives and projects like the water project on the Action 2020 platform of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development. We initiate, implement, and support projects that foster efficient water use in various regions of the world. The Siemens Stiftung, Siemens' nonprofit foundation in Germany, employs an entrepreneurial approach to supplying communities with clean drinking water. One example is described below. The WeTu social enterprise in Kenya The WeTu social enterprise founded by Siemens Stiftung works on innovative solutions for supplying energy and drinking water to communities in Western Kenya near Lake Victoria. Its WeWater unit operates 13 water dispensing stations at various locations that supply the surrounding rural communities with safe, filtered drinking water at economical prices. In a multistage process, surface water is processed through various prefilters, an ultra-filtration membrane, and finally UV disinfection. Drinking water is dispensed around the clock by way of a cashless ATM system. This approach supplies more than 3 million liters of drinking water to 16,000 people. A variety of social marketing measures also alert customers about how contamination can occur in home use and how contaminated drinking water affects health. You can find out more about Siemens Stiftung projects at: @WWW.SIEMENS-STIFTUNG.ORG/PROJECTS/WETU/ SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 153



7.9 Independent auditor's report on a limited assurance engagement 7.9 Independent auditor's report on a limited assurance engagement TO SIEMENS AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT, BERLIN AND MUNICH We have performed a limited assurance engagement on the Sustainability Report of Siemens Aktiengesellschaft, Berlin and Munich (hereafter the "Company"), for the reporting period from October 1, 2022 to September 30, 2023 (here- after the "report"). Our engagement exclusively relates to the English PDF-version of the report. Our engagement did not include the foreword and the information in the Annex to the report as well as any prospective disclosures and links to other web pages. The report is published as a PDF-version at www.SIEMENS.COM/ INVESTOR/EN. RESPONSIBILITIES OF MANAGEMENT The Company's management is responsible for the prepara- tion of the report in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (here- after the "GRI criteria") and for the selection of the informa- tion to be assessed. These responsibilities of the Company's management include the selection and application of appropriate sustainability reporting methods and making assumptions and estimates about individual sustainability disclosures that are reasonable in the circumstances. Furthermore, management is respon- sible for such internal control as management considers necessary to enable the preparation of a report that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud (manipu- lation of the report) or error. INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY ASSURANCE OF THE AUDIT FIRM We have complied with the German professional requirements on independence as well as other professional conduct requirements. Our audit firm applies the national legal requirements and professional pronouncements - in particular the BS WP/vBP ["Berufssatzung für Wirtschaftsprüfer/vereidigte Buchprüfer": Professional Charter for German Public Accountants/German Sworn Auditors] in the exercise of their Profession and the IDW Standard on Quality Management issued by the Institute of Public Auditors in Germany (IDW): Requirements for Quality Management in the Audit Firm (IDW QS 1) and accordingly maintains a comprehensive quality management system that includes documented policies and procedures with regard to compliance with professional ethical requirements, professional standards as well as relevant statutory and other legal requirements. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUDITOR Our responsibility is to express a conclusion with limited assurance on the report based on our assurance engagement. We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): "Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information" issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). This standard requires that we plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether any matters have come to our attention that cause us to believe that the Company's report is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI criteria. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 154



7.9 Independent auditor's report on a limited assurance engagement In a limited assurance engagement, the procedures per- formed are less extensive than in a reasonable assurance engagement, and accordingly, a substantially lower level of assurance is obtained. The selection of the assurance proce- dures is subject to the professional judgment of the auditor. In the course of our assurance engagement we have, among other things, performed the following assurance procedures and other activities: -> Inquiries of employees and inspection of documents concerning the sustainability strategy, sustainability principles and sustainability management including the stakeholder dialog of Siemens AG, -> Inquiries of management and relevant employees involved in the preparation of the report about the prepa- ration process, about the internal control system related to this process, and about disclosures in the report, -> Inquiries of employees responsible for data capture and consolidation, about the data capture and compilation methods as well as internal controls to the extent relevant for the assurance of the disclosures in the report, -> Identification of likely risks of material misstatement in the report, -> Analytical procedures on selected disclosures in the report at Group level and at the level of the Industrial Businesses, -> Inquiries and inspection of documents relating to the collection and reporting of selected data at Group level, at the level of the Industrial Businesses and at selected sites, -> Inquiries of employees on material qualitative statements in the report as well as the inspection of selected under- lying documents, -> Reconciliation of selected disclosures with the corre- sponding data in the consolidated financial statements and group management report, -> Evaluation of the presentation of the report. ASSURANCE CONCLUSION Based on the assurance procedures performed and the evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainability Report of Siemens Aktiengesellschaft for the period from October 1, 2022 to September 30, 2023 is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI criteria. RESTRICTION OF USE We draw attention to the fact that the assurance engage- ment was conducted for the Company's purposes and that the assurance report is intended solely to inform the Com- pany about the result of the assurance engagement. As a result, it may not be suitable for another purpose than the aforementioned. Accordingly, the assurance report is not intended to be used by third parties for making (financial) decisions based on it. Our responsibility is to the Company alone. We do not accept any responsibility to third parties. Our assurance conclusion is not modified in this respect. GENERAL ENGAGEMENT TERMS AND LIABILITY The "General Engagement Terms for Wirtschaftsprüfer and Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften [German Public Auditors and Public Audit Firms]" dated January 1, 2017 are applica- ble to this engagement and also govern our relations with third parties in the context of this engagement (- WWW.DE.EY. COM/GENERAL-ENGAGEMENT-TERMS). In addition, please refer to the liability provisions contained there in no. 9 and to the exclusion of liability towards third parties. We accept no responsibility, liability or other obligations towards third parties unless we have concluded a written agreement to the contrary with the respective third party or liability cannot effectively be precluded. We make express reference to the fact that we will not update the assurance report to reflect events or circum- stances arising after it was issued, unless required to do so by law. It is the sole responsibility of anyone taking note of the summarized result of our work contained in this report to decide whether and in what way this information is useful or suitable for their purposes and to supplement, verify or update it by means of their own review procedures. Munich, December 4, 2023 Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 155



7.10 Notes and forward-looking statements 7.10 Notes and forward-looking statements This document contains statements related to our future business and financial performance and future events or developments involving Siemens that may constitute forward- looking statements. These statements may be identified by words such as "expect," "look forward to," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "believe," "seek," "estimate," "will," "project", or words of similar meaning. We may also make forward- looking statements in other reports, in prospectuses, in presentations, in material delivered to shareholders, and in press releases. In addition, our representatives may from time to time make oral forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on the current expectations and certain assumptions of Siemens' management; many of them are therefore beyond Siemens' control. These are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and factors, including, but not limited to those described in disclosures, in particular in the chapter Report on risks and opportunities, and including reports on expected development of the Annual Report. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, events of force majeure, such as pandemics, occur, or should underlying expectations including future events occur at a later date or not at all or assumptions prove incorrect, actual results, performance, or achievements of Siemens may (negatively or positively) vary materially from those described explicitly or implicitly in the relevant forward-looking statement "Notes and forward-looking statements" in the SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023. Siemens neither intends nor assumes any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements in light of developments which differ from those anticipated. This document includes - in the applicable financial reporting framework not clearly defined - supplemental financial measures that are or may be alternative performance mea- sures. These supplemental financial measures should not be viewed in isolation or as alternatives to measures of Siemens' net assets and financial positions or results of operations as presented in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework in its Consolidated Financial Statements. Other companies that report or describe similarly titled alter- native performance measures may calculate them differently. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 156



7.11 Further information and information resources 7.11 Further information and information resources Additional information The online version of the Siemens annual financial report 2023 is available at: WWW.SIEMENS.COM/ANNUALREPORTS Further sustainability information Further information on our commitment to sustainability and sustainability figures are available at: WWW.SIEMENS.COM/GLOBAL/EN/COMPANY/SUSTAINABILITY.HTML WWW.SIEMENS.COM/GLOBAL/EN/COMPANY/SUSTAINABILITY/ SUSTAINABILITY-FIGURES.HTML Further information on research, development, and innovation at Siemens is available at: WWW.SIEMENS.COM/GLOBAL/EN/COMPANY/INNOVATION.HTML Further information on Siemens Stiftung is available at: WWW.SIEMENS-STIFTUNG.ORG/EN/ @ 2023 by Siemens AG, Berlin and Munich SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 157



Address Siemens AG Werner-von-Siemens-Str. 1 80333 Munich Germany Internet WWW.SIEMENS.COM Phone +49 89 636-33443 (Media Relations) +49 89 636-32474 (Investor Relations) Fax +49 89 636-30085 (Media Relations) +49 89 636-1332474 (Investor Relations) Email press@siemens.com investorrelations@siemens.com @ 2023 by Siemens AG, Berlin and Munich

Table 1:
|:------------|:------------|:----------------------------------------------------|:-------------|
| Key figures |             |                                                     |              |
|             |             | OW                                                  | %            |
| 320,000     | €78 billion | 15.4%                                               | €8.5 billion |
| Employees   | Revenue     | Adjusted EBITA margin for the Industrial Businesses | Net income   |

Table 2:
|:---------|--:|
| Contents | 3 |
| Foreword | 4 |

Table 3:
|:-------|:---------------------------------------------|----:|
| Social |                                              |  81 |
| 5.1    | Working at Siemens                           |  82 |
| 5.2    | Diversity, Equity & Inclusion                |  89 |
| 5.3    | Professional education and lifelong learning |  93 |
| 5.4    | Occupational health and safety management    |  97 |
| 5.5    | Corporate citizenship                        | 102 |

Table 4:
|:-------------------------------------------------------------------|:----|
| Our sustainability indicators                                      | 106 |
| 7                                                                  |     |
| Annex                                                              | 124 |
| 7.1 Reporting methodology                                          | 125 |
| 7.2 Reporting principles for Customer Avoided Emissions            |     |
|                                                                    | 128 |
| 7.3 Our contribution to sustainable development of societies       | 132 |
| 7.4 Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosure (TCFD)      | 136 |
| 7.5 GRI Standards - key topics and boundaries                      | 144 |
| 7.6 WEF IBC Metric                                                 | 146 |
| 7.7 SASB - Electrical Electronic Equipment Index                   | 150 |
| 7.8 United Nations CEO Water Mandate                               | 152 |
| 7.9 Independent auditor's report on a limited assurance engagement | 154 |
| 7.10 Notes and forward-looking statements                          | 156 |
| 7.11 Further information and                                       |     |
| information resources                                              | 157 |

Table 5:
|:-----------------------------|:--------------------|:------------------|:------------------------------|:----------------------------------|:------------------------------------------|
| 3 GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING | 4 QUALITY EDUCATION | 5 GENDER EQUALITY | 7 AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY | 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH | 9 INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE |
|                              | :selected:          |                   |                               |                                   |                                           |

Table 6:
|:--------------------|:-------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------|:----------------------|:-----------------------------|:-------------|
|                     |              |                                                                                                       | Baseline             | Progress              | Ambitions                    |              |
|                     |              |                                                                                                       |                      | at the end of FY 23   |                              |              |
| Decarboni- zation   | 1.           | Net Zero operations by 2030, with 55%                                                                 | FY 19: 737 kt CO,e   | -50% :unselected:     | -55% by 2025                 | E            |
|                     |              |                                                                                                       |                      |                       |                              | :unselected: |
|                     |              | emissions reduction by 2025 and 90% by 2030                                                           |                      |                       | -90% by 2030                 |              |
|                     | 2.           | Net Zero supply chain by 2050, 20% emissions reduction by 2030                                        | FY 20: 8,098 kt CO,e | -1%                   | -20% by 2030 - 100% by 2050  | :unselected: |
| Ethics              | 3.           | Striving to train 100% of our people on Siemens'                                                      | From FY 23           | 69%                   | 100% by 2025                 | E            |
|                     |              | Business Conduct Guidelines every three years                                                         |                      |                       |                              | :unselected: |
| Governance          | 4.           | ESG-secured supply chain based on supplier commitment to the Supplier Code of Conduct                 |                      | Suppliers committed   |                              | E            |
|                     |              |                                                                                                       |                      |                       |                              | :unselected: |
|                     | 5.           | Long-term incentives based on ESG criteria1                                                           |                      | ESG criteria anchored |                              | E            |
|                     | :unselected: |                                                                                                       |                      |                       |                              |              |
| Resource efficiency | 6.           | Next-level Robust Eco Design for 100% of                                                              | FY 21: 26%           | 51%                   | 100% by 2030                 | E            |
|                     | :unselected: |                                                                                                       |                      |                       |                              |              |
|                     |              | relevant Siemens product families by 2030                                                             |                      |                       |                              |              |
|                     | 7.           | Natural resource decoupling through increased                                                         | -                    | Metals 35%            | - -                          | E            |
|                     |              | purchase of secondary materials for metals and resins2                                                |                      | Resins <1%            | - -                          | :unselected: |
|                     | 8.           | Circularity through waste-to-landfill reduction of 50% by 2025 and toward zero landfill waste by 2030 | FY 21: 0%            | -15%                  | -50% by 2025 ~- 100% by 2030 | :unselected: |
|                     | :unselected: |                                                                                                       |                      |                       |                              |              |
| Equity              | 9.           | 30% female share in top management by 2025                                                            | FY 20: 22.7%         | 31.1%                 | 30% by 2025                  | :unselected: |
|                     | 10.          | Access to employee share plans: maintain                                                              | FY 21: 98%           | 99.9% |               | ~100% by 2025                | :unselected: |
|                     |              | high level and expand globally to up to 100%3                                                         |                      |                       |                              |              |
|                     | 11.          | Global commitment to the New Normal Working Model4                                                    |                      | Rollout continued     |                              | E            |
|                     |              |                                                                                                       |                      |                       |                              | :unselected: |
| Employability       | 12.          | Increase digital learning hours to "25 by 25"5                                                        | FY 20: 7h            | 23h                   | 25h by 2025                  | E            |
|                     |              |                                                                                                       |                      | :unselected:          |                              | :unselected: |
|                     | 13.          | Access to Employee Assistance Program: maintain high level and expand globally to 100% by 2025        | FY 20: 82%           | 96%                   | 100% by 2025                 | :unselected: |
|                     | 14.          | 30% improvement in Siemens' globally aggregated LTIFR6 by 2025                                        | FY 20: 0.31          | -26% :unselected:     | - 30% by 2025                | E            |
|                     |              |                                                                                                       |                      |                       |                              | :unselected: |

Table 7:
|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| - Materiality assessment based on GRI 2021                                                                                                                                          | Identifying and prioritizing the topics                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| - 15 material sustainability topics of the greatest                                                                                                                                 | In 2023, Siemens conducted internal workshops to help                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| relevance to Siemens                                                                                                                                                                | identify our material topics by assessing their impacts, risks,                                                                                                                                                                           |
| - Material impacts, risks, and opportunities as part                                                                                                                                | and opportunities from two different perspectives:                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| of our strategic considerations                                                                                                                                                     |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
|                                                                                                                                                                                     | -> Inside-out perspective: Siemens took a closer look at its positive and negative                                                                                                                                                        |
| Key topics as guiding principles                                                                                                                                                    | impacts on the environment and society (inside-out) caused                                                                                                                                                                                |
| Our materiality assessment is based on external frameworks like the UN Global Compact and the Standards of the Global                                                               | by the company's business activities.                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Reporting Initiative (GRI 2021), which are the foundation for our reporting. The key topics covered in this report are struc-                                                       | During the inside-out assessment, we identified actual and potential positive and negative impacts for 17 sustainability                                                                                                                  |
| tured based on ESG.                                                                                                                                                                 | topics and evaluated them according to their likelihood and their severity. Based on evaluations of the individual impacts,                                                                                                               |
| Materiality assessment                                                                                                                                                              | our material topics were derived. These topics are the foun-                                                                                                                                                                              |
| We updated our materiality assessment with an emphasis                                                                                                                              | dation for determining the content of the GRI report. Including                                                                                                                                                                           |
| on our industrial businesses Digital Industries, Smart Infra- structure, and Mobility in fiscal 2023 based on the GRI 2021                                                          | the outside-in perspective (see below) does not alter the results.                                                                                                                                                                        |
| standards. Our aim was to identify our company's key eco-                                                                                                                           | The material topics where Siemens can exert the greatest influence on society and the environment are climate action, social and ecological standards in the supply chain, and sustainable product design and lifecycle management. These |
| nomic, ecological, and social impacts on the environment and society in accordance with the updated GRI Standards.                                                                  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| The resulting topics also align with Siemens Healthineers' (SHS) material topics, which were determined in an indepen-                                                              |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| dent materiality assessment.                                                                                                                                                        | topics received the highest scores in this year's analysis.                                                                                                                                                                               |
| The material topics form the framework for implementing                                                                                                                             | -> Outside-in perspective:                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| sustainability in the company - at the central corporate                                                                                                                            | The outside-in perspective refers to sustainability topics that                                                                                                                                                                           |
| level, in our business units, and in the countries. Siemens                                                                                                                         | can be associated with opportunities and risks for the                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| strives to continuously improve sustainability management                                                                                                                           | company's business activities or financial situation. This                                                                                                                                                                                |
| and understands the materiality assessment to be a prereq-                                                                                                                          | perspective was taken into account in the inside-out per- spective in order to introduce the double materiality principle of future regulation.                                                                                           |
| uisite for identifying and managing potential opportunities and risks. The Siemens business units derive their key action areas from the requirements and basic conditions of their |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| local markets.                                                                                                                                                                      | The material sustainability topics with the highest degree of influence on our business activities and the generation of lasting value are climate protection and sustainable product design and lifecycle management.                    |

Table 8:
|:------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------|
| Sustainability topics                                             | SDGs                             | DEGREE                                                |
| Climate action1                                                   | 7 9 11 12 13                     | D ECARBONIZATION                                      |
| Innovation and business model                                     | 6 7 8 9 11 12 13 14 15 16 17     | D ECARBONIZATION R ESOURCE EFFICIENCY G OVERNANCE     |
| Cybersecurity and data management                                 | 5 8 10 16 17                     | E THICS                                               |
|                                                                   | :selected:                       |                                                       |
| Social and ecological standards in the supply chain               | 8 12 16 17                       | G OVERNANCE                                           |
| Corporate governance and sustainability leadership                | 8 12 16 17                       | GOVERNANCE                                            |
| Partner management and collaboration                              | 7 8 9 11 12 13 16 17             | :unselected: GOVERNANCE :unselected: D ECARBONIZATION |
| ESG risk management                                               | 5 |8 10 12 16 17                 | :unselected: GOVERNANCE ETHICS                        |
| Compliance management                                             | 5 8 10 12 16 17                  | GOVERNANCE E THICS                                    |
|                                                                   | :selected: :selected: :selected: |                                                       |
| Sustainable product design and lifecycle management1              | 6 7 9 11 12 13 14 15             | RESOURCE EFFICIENCY                                   |
|                                                                   | :selected:                       |                                                       |
| Waste and hazardous substance management                          | 3 6 12 14 1                      | RESOURCE EFFICIENCY                                   |
|                                                                   | :selected:                       |                                                       |
| Sustainable handling of natural resources and material efficiency | 6 7 9 11 12 13 14 15             | RESOURCE EFFICIENCY                                   |
| Diversity, equity, and inclusion                                  | 3 4 5 8 10 11                    | E QUITY                                               |
|                                                                   |                                  | :selected:                                            |
| Future of work                                                    | 5 8 10                           | E QUITY EMPLOYABILITY                                 |
|                                                                   | :selected:                       | :selected: :unselected:                               |
| Employee development                                              | 4||8                             | E QUITY EMPLOYABILITY                                 |
| Employee health and safety                                        | 3 4 8 10                         | EMPLOYABILITY                                         |
|                                                                   | :selected: :selected:            |                                                       |

Table 9:
|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Partnership organization                                                                                         | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| Decarbonization and energy efficiency                                                                            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| The Climate Group -> EV100 -> EP100 -> RE100                                                                     | The EV100 initiative expedites the shift to electric vehicles (EVs). Siemens intends for EVs to account for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                                                  | 100% of its fleet by 2030. We are also investing in the establishment of charging infrastructure in the same timeframe.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|                                                                                                                  | EP100 brings together over 125 ambitious businesses committed to improving energy efficiency. Siemens is committed to owning only assets that are Net Zero carbon in operation and occupying only assets that are Net Zero carbon in operation by 2030.                                                                                                                                                   |
|                                                                                                                  | RE100 unites hundreds of ambitious companies committed to 100% renewable electricity. Siemens is committed to reaching this target by 2030.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| United Nations -> Conference of the Parties (COP) -> Global Compact (UNGC) Working Group on Climate              | The United Nations Conference of Parties (COP) is the world's highest decision-making body on climate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|                                                                                                                  | issues. COP connects stakeholders from politics, society, and business for discussions about the global path                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
|                                                                                                                  | to Net Zero. COP provides a unique opportunity to showcase Siemens as a multiplier of change that empowers customers and societies to drive their sustainability transformation. The 28th session of the COP was held in Dubai, UAE in 2023.                                                                                                                                                              |
|                                                                                                                  | The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is the world's largest corporate sustainability initiative. It calls for companies to align their strategies and operations with universal principles on human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. Siemens is active in the UNGC's Working Group on Climate.                                                                                        |
| U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Better Buildings initiative                                                      | Better Buildings is an Initiative of the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) that is designed to improve the lives of the American people by driving leadership in energy innovation. Siemens is an active participant in the initiative's Better Climate Challenge.                                                                                                                                          |
| The World Bank Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC)                                                        | The Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC) brings together leaders from government, the private sector, academia, and civil society to expand the use of carbon pricing policies. Siemens is a member of the coalition and actively advocates for the global introduction of carbon pricing.                                                                                                          |
| The World Economic Forum (WEF) -> Alliance for Clean Air -> Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders -> ESG Practitioners | The World Economic Forum (WEF) is the international organization for public-private cooperation. Siemens is a founding member of the WEF Alliance for Clean Air, which brings together business leaders to measure and reduce value chain air pollutant emissions, invest in innovation, and work with policymakers and                                                                                   |
|                                                                                                                  | peers to champion the social, economic, and climate benefits of tackling air pollution.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|                                                                                                                  | The WEF Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders is a CEO-led community committed to defining bold climate goals and accelerating the Net Zero transition by setting science-based targets, disclosing emissions, and catalyzing decarbonization and partnerships across global value chains. The WEF ESG Practitioners help implement the recommendations from the WEF Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics in reports. |

Table 10:
|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Partnership organization                                                                                        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| Resource efficiency and circularity                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| The European Union (EU) Business and Biodiversity Platform                                                      | The EU Business and Biodiversity Platform provides a unique forum for dialog and a policy interface for discussing the links between business and biodiversity at the EU level. Siemens is an active member of the Platform.                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| The European Union (EU) Circular Plastics Alliance Declaration                                                  | The EU Circular Plastics Alliance aims to boost the EU market for recycled plastics. The Alliance covers the full plastics value chain and includes over 330 organizations representing industry, academia, and public authorities. Siemens is an active member of the Alliance.                                                                                                                                      |
| The Federation of German Industries (BDI) Circular Economy Initiative                                           | The BDI Circular Economy Initiative is a network of about 60 organizations across the entire industrial spectrum. Siemens is a founding member of the Circular Economy Initiative.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI)                                                                           | The Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) is one of the most utilized and respected resources used by companies in a variety of industries for addressing responsible minerals sourcing issues in their supply chains. Siemens is an active member of RMI and is involved in advancing the topic of responsible minerals sourcing at Siemens.                                                                         |
| People-centricity and societal impact                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| The European Union (EU) Agency for                                                                              | EU-OSHA is the EU's information agency overseeing occupational safety and health at work. Siemens is a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| Safety and Health at Work (OSHA)                                                                                | partner of the EU-OSHA Healthy Workplaces Campaign and is committed to championing safe and healthy work in the digital age.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| Global Business Initiative (GBI) on Human Rights                                                                | The Global Business Initiative (GBI) works to shape practices, inspire commitment, and build the capability for implementing respect for human rights, in line with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Siemens is an active member of the Initiative.                                                                                                                                            |
| The International Organisation of Employers (IOE) Global Occupational and Health Network (GOSH)                 | The IOE GOSH is a network of more than 150 member organizations focused on improving occupational health and safety, providing forums to identify and, discuss emerging trends and international best practices. Siemens is an active member of the Network.                                                                                                                                                          |
| One Young World (OYW)                                                                                           | One Young World (OYW) is a non-profit organization that empowers and develops young leaders to build a fair, sustainable future for all. Siemens has been an active partner of OYW for over a decade, with over 500 Siemens delegates having participated the annual OYW Summits since they began.                                                                                                                    |
| United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) European Working Group on Business and Human Rights                        | The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is the world's largest corporate sustainability initiative. It calls for companies to align their strategies and operations with universal principles on human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. Siemens is a member of the European Working Group on Business and Human Rights.                                                                              |
| G7 and the International Labour Organization (ILO) Vision Zero Fund                                             | The Vision Zero Fund is an initiative of the G7 countries aimed at preventing work-related deaths, injuries, and disease in sectors operating in or aspiring to join global supply chains. The ILO administers and imple- ments the fund's projects. Siemens was the first private sector donor to join the fund.                                                                                                     |
| The World Economic Forum (WEF) Chief Health Officer Group                                                       | The World Economic Forum (WEF) is the international organization for public-private cooperation. Siemens is an active member of the WEF Chief Health Officer Group, which works to advance the overall well-being of the workforce.                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| Support for non-profit organizations that promote business integrity and the fight against corruption worldwide | So far we have allocated about US$ 120 million to 85 projects in more than 50 countries across all funding rounds. Information is available on the INTEGRITY INITIATIVE WEBSITE and the :unselected: :unselected: SIEMENS INTEGRITY INITIATIVE REPORT 2022.                                                                                                                                                           |
| Cross-topic partnerships                                                                                        |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| The Conference Board (TCB)                                                                                      | The Conference Board (TCB) is a non-profit corporate membership and research organization that organizes conferences and peer learning groups, conducts economic and business research, and publishes economic indicators. Siemens is active in multiple TCB Councils on topics like corporate sustainability, the environment, and well-being.                                                                       |
| econsense                                                                                                       | Econsense is a German economic sustainability network whose members' objective is to actively shape the transition to a more sustainable economy. Siemens is a founding member of econsense, member of the Board of Trustees and the Executive Board, and an active participant in working groups on Environment, Climate, Disclosure and Reporting, Business and Human Rights, and Human Rights in the Supply Chain. |
| The World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD)                                                  | The World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) is a community of over 200 leading organizations that are working together to take action to limit the climate crisis, restore nature, and tackle inequality. Siemens has actively participated in a number of workstreams, including those focused on carbon accounting and reduction and the sustainable built environment.                          |

Table 11:
|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------|:---------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------|:-----------|:------------------------------------------------------------|
| Siemens' sustainability performance has received high recognition in external ratings |                             |                      |                                                         |                                  |            |                                                             |
| External sustainability ratings                                                       | MSCI                        | ISS ESGA             | SUSTAINALYTICS                                          | S&P Global Ratings               | ecovadis   | WCDP DISCLOSURE INSIGHT ACTION                              |
| Latest Siemens score                                                                  | AA                          | B-                   | 28.4                                                    | 81/100                           | 77         | A-                                                          |
| Siemens industry rank                                                                 | Leader                      | 1 st in our industry | Top 15%                                                 | Top 1%                           | Top 1%     | Top in industry (industry average C-)                       |
| Progress from previous assessment                                                     | Unchanged                   | Unchanged            | Improvement of 1.7 points                               | Unchanged                        | +7 points  | Unchanged                                                   |
| Highlights                                                                            | Leader (AAA/AA) for 7 years | Prime status         | Strong "Carbon - Products and Services" risk management | Over 20 years in the World Index | Gold medal | Over 10 years at leadership level (A/A-) for Climate Change |

Table 12:
|:------------------|:----------------|:------------------------|:---------------|:---------------|:--------------|
| 5 GENDER EQUALITY | DECENT WORK AND | 10 REDUCED INEQUALITIES | RESPONSIBLE    | PEACE, JUSTICE | PARTNERSHIPS  |
|                   | 8               |                         | 12             | 16             | 17            |
|                   | ECONOMIC GROWTH |                         | CONSUMPTION    | AND STRONG     | FOR THE GOALS |
| :unselected:      |                 |                         | AND PRODUCTION | INSTITUTIONS   |               |

Table 13:
|:--------------------------|:-----------------|:-----|
| Compliance indicators1    |                  |      |
|                           | Fiscal year 2023 | 2022 |
| Compliance cases reported | 416              | 363  |
| Disciplinary sanctions    | 166              | 212  |
| therein warnings          | 87               | 90   |
| therein dismissals        | 43               | 74   |
| therein other2            | 36               | 48   |

Table 14:
|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| The Business Conduct Guidelines                                                                                        | them responsibly to the extent that they can be influenced                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| Our commitment to respecting human rights is anchored in our                                                           | by the company.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Siemens Business Conduct Guidelines (BCGs) 7 COMPLIANCE                                                                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| AND ETHICS. They set out the fundamental principles and rules                                                          | Actions and results                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| that apply to our actions relating to human rights in our                                                              |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| company and with our customers, external partners, and the                                                             | Human rights in our own workforce                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| public. The BCGs are binding for all employees worldwide. In                                                           | The BCGs are an integral element of all employment con- tracts. BUSINESS CONDUCT GUIDELINES. Siemens does not tolerate :unselected: discrimination, sexual harassment, or any other form of personal attack on individuals or groups. In addition, the principles of equal opportunity and equal treatment apply |
| addition, the Siemens Group Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Third-Party Intermediaries (Supplier Code of Conduct),   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| which is mainly focused on rules of conduct relating to                                                                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| human rights, applies to the company's suppliers, third-party                                                          |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| intermediaries, and business partners.                                                                                 | without restriction. We foster diversity, equal opportunity, and inclusion in the interest of creating an open and                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| Beyond that, Siemens has reaffirmed its commitment to workers' fundamental labor rights in an International Frame-     | welcoming work environment. 7 DIVERSITY, EQUITY & INCLUSION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| work Agreement signed with trade unions and employee                                                                   | Human rights in the supply chain                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| representatives in 2012. This specifically includes the right                                                          | One of our guiding principles is to maintain sustainable                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| to collective bargaining and freedom of association.                                                                   | supply chains. Siemens' suppliers commit to upholding the Supplier Code of Conduct, which affirms the fundamental                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| Targets                                                                                                                | human rights of our suppliers' employees. In fiscal 2023, we                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Our DEGREE sustainability framework consists of a number                                                               | modified the Supplier Code of Conduct to include additional                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| of fields of actions that address the multifaceted issue of                                                            | requirements from new regulations and prepared its rollout                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| human rights in the areas of G (Governance), E (Ethics),                                                               | readiness for fiscal 2024. The Code encompasses but is not limited to the following                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| E (Employability), and E (Equity).1                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Regarding our approach to respecting human rights, we have established measures that encompass our own operations, our | human rights topics:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| supply chain, and customer-related business activities.                                                                | -> Fair work conditions (pay, work hours, vacations) -> Right to freedom of association                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| Continuous improvement measures                                                                                        | -> Responsibility for health and safety standards                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| We view fulfilling our responsibility to human rights as a                                                             | -> Prohibition of discrimination                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| continuous improvement journey. In fiscal 2023, Siemens                                                                | -> Prohibition of forced labor and child labor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| modified its policies, processes, and methods to align with regulatory requirements like the LkSG. We have established | -> Provision of anonymous grievance mechanisms                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| a cross-functional Committee with the aim of ensuring gov-                                                             | Siemens takes a risk-based approach to identifying potential risks in its supply chain. This includes Corporate Responsibility Self-Assessments (CRSAs) by suppliers and external sustain- ability audits. When deviations from the Supplier Code of                                                             |
| ernance oversight and decision-making on future measures                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| related to the LkSG.                                                                                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| In consideration of future regulatory developments and                                                                 | Conduct and violations of the human rights principles are                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| increased stakeholder expectations, we strive to continu- ously modify the company's risk management programs and      | identified, we work with suppliers to clarify how lasting corrective actions can be taken within a reasonable time-                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| procedures across our value chain.                                                                                     | frame. 7 SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTICES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| We aim to systematically identify and assess the risk of human rights violations at an early stage and to mitigate     | In the case of severe violations, we reserve the right to terminate the supplier relationship. 7 MATERIAL HUMAN RIGHTS RISK ISSUES IN OUR VALUE CHAIN                                                                                                                                                            |
| 1 Siemens without SHS.                                                                                                 |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023 41                                                                                  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |

Table 15:
|:-----------------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| I. Periodic human rights impact review process |                                                                                                            |
| > Periodic review                              | How are the material human right aspects and human rights risk issues for Siemens periodically identified? |
| V                                              |                                                                                                            |

Table 16:
|:-------------------------|:--------------------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| III. Overarching pillars |                                       |                                                                                           |
| >                        | Awareness                             | How is awareness of human rights issues ensured at Siemens?                               |
| >                        | Policy and circulars                  | How is Siemens' commitment to respecting human rights embedded in policies and circulars? |
| >                        | Training and competence building      | How do you develop target group-specific human rights training for Siemens?               |
| >                        | Reporting and external communications | How are human rights activities and issues disclosed?                                     |
| >                        | Stakeholder engagement                | How do you build an open dialog with external and internal stakeholders?                  |
| >                        | Risk identification                   | How are risks along the value chain identified?                                           |
|                          | Risk management                       | What are effective prevention and mitigation measures?                                    |

Table 17:
|:--------------------------------------------------|:------------|:------|
| Corporate Responsibility Self-Assessments (CRSA)1 |             |       |
| (Number)                                          | Fiscal year |       |
|                                                   | 2023        | 2022  |
| Europe, Middle East, Africa, C.I.S.2              | 1,122       | 1,147 |
| Americas                                          | 767         | 654   |
| Asia, Australia                                   | 3,207       | 3,111 |
| Total                                             | 5,096       | 4,912 |

Table 18:
|:-------------------------------------------------------|:------|:------|
| Agreed upon improvement3                               | 2023  | 2022  |
| Legal Compliance/prohibition of corruption and bribery | 1,698 | 915   |
| Respect for the basic human rights of employees        | 1,194 | 564   |
| Prohibition of child labor                             | 168   | 80    |
| Health and safety of employees                         | 1,103 | 879   |
| Environmental protection                               | 1,116 | 546   |
| Supply chain                                           | 214   | 125   |
| Total                                                  | 5,493 | 3,109 |

Table 19:
|:-------------------------------------|:-----------------|:-----|
| External sustainability audits (ESA) |                  |      |
| (Number)                             | Fiscal year 2023 | 2022 |
| Europe, Middle East, Africa, C.I.S.1 | 97               | 113  |
| Americas                             | 51               | 50   |
| Asia, Australia                      | 333              | 263  |
| Total2                               | 481              | 426  |

Table 20:
|:-------------------------------------------------------|:------------|:------|
| Agreed upon improvement3                               | Fiscal year |       |
|                                                        | 2023        | 2022  |
| Legal Compliance/prohibition of corruption and bribery | 1,308       | 1,101 |
| Respect for the basic human rights of employees        | 3,977       | 2,717 |
| Prohibition of child labor                             | 106         | 82    |
| Health and safety of employees                         | 3,511       | 2,802 |
| Environmental protection                               | 285         | 271   |
| Supply chain                                           | 334         | 302   |
| Total2                                                 | 9,521       | 7,275 |

Table 21:
|:------------------------------------------------------|:-----------------------------|:------------------------------|:------------------------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------|:------------------|
| 3 GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING                          | 6 CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION | 7 AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY | 9 INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE | 11 SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES                                                | 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION | 13 CLIMATE ACTION |
|                                                       |                              |                               |                                           |                                                                                      | AND PRODUCTION             |                   |
|                                                       |                              |                               |                                           |                                                                                      | :selected:                 |                   |
| 14 LIFE BELOW WATER                                   | 15 LIFE ON LAND              | 17 PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS |                                           |                                                                                      |                            |                   |
| Decarbonization                                       |                              |                               |                                           | Resource                                                                             |                            | efficiency        |
| support the 1.5℃ target to fight global               |                              |                               | warming                                   | achieve circularity and dematerialization                                            |                            |                   |
| Our key ambitions1                                    |                              |                               |                                           | Our key ambitions1                                                                   |                            |                   |
| -> Net Zero operations by 2030, with 55%              |                              |                               | reduction                                 | -> Robust Eco Design approach to be implemented for                                  |                            |                   |
| by 2025 and 90% by 2030                               |                              |                               |                                           | 100% of relevant Siemens product families by 2030                                    |                            |                   |
| -> Net Zero supply chain                              |                              | by 2050, 20%                  | emissions                                 | -> Natural resource decoupling through increased                                     |                            |                   |
| reduction by 2030                                     |                              |                               |                                           | purchase of secondary materials                                                      |                            | for metals and    |
|                                                       |                              |                               |                                           | resins                                                                               |                            |                   |
| Additional highlights                                 |                              |                               |                                           | -> Circularity through waste-to-landfill reduction of                                |                            |                   |
| -> Part of the EP100, EV100,                          |                              | and RE100                     | initiative2                               | 50% by 2025 and toward zero                                                          |                            | landfill waste by |
| -> Portfolio to support customers in climate          |                              |                               | protection                                | 2030                                                                                 |                            |                   |
| -> Disclosure of Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-      |                              |                               |                                           |                                                                                      |                            |                   |
| aligned revenues, capital expenditures, and operating |                              |                               |                                           | Additional highlights                                                                |                            |                   |
| expenditures                                          |                              |                               |                                           | -> Assessment of our biodiversity footprint as founda- tion for further improvements |                            |                   |
|                                                       |                              |                               |                                           | -> Improvements to energy efficiency as part of our                                  |                            |                   |
|                                                       |                              |                               |                                           | Eco Efficiency @ Siemens target                                                      |                            |                   |
|                                                       |                              |                               |                                           | -> Implementation of water strategy almost completed                                 |                            |                   |

Table 22:
|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Eco Efficiency @ Siemens                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |                                                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| Responsible Product Development                                                                                                                                                                                 | Clean Supply Chain                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Efficient Own Operations                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Products and solutions are at the core of our business. Evaluating our portfolio and applying an Ecodesign approach to rele- vant product families supports us in selling eco-efficient products and solutions. | A clean supply chain is central to the journey of decoupling natural resource use. That is why we will increasingly source secondary materials and take action to replace regu- lated substances according to IEC 62474. | At the heart of our environmental approach is our ability to efficiently manage our production sites and offices - especially by enhancing waste management practices and using clean energy. |

Table 23:
|:------------------------------------------|:-----------------|:--------|
| (In 1,000 metric tons of CO2 equivalents) | Fiscal year 2023 | 2022    |
| Scope 1                                   | 387              | 393     |
| Scope 22                                  | 163              | 189     |
| Sum Scopes 1 and 2                        | 550              | 582     |
| Scope 3                                   |                  |         |
| Purchases goods & services                | 9,276            | 9,557   |
| Capital goods                             | 416              | 458     |
| Fuel and energy-related activities        | 111              | 137     |
| Waste in operations                       | 29               | 25      |
| Transportation upstream                   | 884              | 1,118   |
| Business travel                           | 227              | 122     |
| Employee commuting3                       | 105              | 98      |
| Sum of Scope 3 upstream                   | 11,048           | 11,515  |
| Use of sold products                      | 469,180          | 442,175 |
| Investments                               | 2,960            | 3,915   |
| Sum of Scope 3 downstream                 | 472,140          | 446,090 |
| Total Scope 3                             | 483,188          | 457,606 |

Table 24:
|:-----------------------------------|:-----------------|:-----|
| Avoided emissions at our customers |                  |      |
| (in million t CO2-equivalent)      | Fiscal Year 2023 |      |
|                                    |                  | 2022 |
| Siemens                            | 190              | 153  |

Table 25:
|:----------------------------------------------|:------------|:------|
| (in metric tons)                              | Fiscal year |       |
|                                               | 2023        | 2022  |
| Volatile organic compounds                    | 250         | 274   |
| Ozone-depleting substances of R11 equivalent1 | 0.044       | 0.036 |

Table 26:
|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:--------------------|
| Economic Activity                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                           | Industrial Business |
| 3.1                                                                                                                                         | Manufacture of renewable energy technologies                                                                                              | SI                  |
| 3.3 Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                           | SMO                 |
| 3.5 Manufacture of energy efficiency equipment for buildings                                                                                |                                                                                                                                           | SI                  |
| 3.6 Manufacture of other low-carbon technologies                                                                                            |                                                                                                                                           | DI, SI              |
| 4.9 Transmission and distribution of electricity                                                                                            |                                                                                                                                           | SI                  |
| 6.14 Infrastructure for rail transport                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                                           | SMO                 |
| 6.15 Infrastructure enabling low-carbon road transport and public transport                                                                 |                                                                                                                                           | SMO, SI             |
| 6.16 Infrastructure enabling low-carbon water transport                                                                                     |                                                                                                                                           | SI                  |
| 7.3 Installation, maintenance and repair of energy efficiency equipment                                                                     |                                                                                                                                           | SI                  |
| 7.4 Installation, maintenance and repair of charging stations for electric vehicles in buildings (and parking spaces attached to buildings) |                                                                                                                                           | SI                  |
| 7.5                                                                                                                                         | Installation, maintenance and repair of instruments and devices for measuring, regulation and controlling energy performance of buildings | SI                  |
| 7.6 Installation, maintenance and repair of renewable energy technologies                                                                   |                                                                                                                                           | SI                  |
| 8.2 Data-driven solutions for GHG emissions reductions                                                                                      |                                                                                                                                           | DI, SI              |
| 9.3 Professional services related to energy performance of buildings                                                                        |                                                                                                                                           | SI                  |

Table 27:
|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:--------------------|
| Economic Activity                                                                                                                             | Industrial Business |
| 3.1 Manufacture of renewable energy technologies                                                                                              | SI                  |
| 3.3 Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for transport                                                                                      | SMO                 |
| 3.5 Manufacture of energy efficiency equipment for buildings                                                                                  | SI                  |
| 3.6 Manufacture of other low-carbon technologies                                                                                              | DI                  |
| 4.9 Transmission and distribution of electricity                                                                                              | SI                  |
| 6.14 Infrastructure for rail transport                                                                                                        | SMO                 |
| 6.15 Infrastructure enabling low-carbon road transport and public transport                                                                   | SMO, SI             |
| 6.16 Infrastructure enabling low carbon water transport                                                                                       | SI                  |
| 7.3 Installation, maintenance and repair of energy efficiency equipment                                                                       | SI                  |
| 7.5 Installation, maintenance and repair of instruments and devices for measuring, regulation and controlling energy performance of buildings | SI                  |
| 7.6 Installation, maintenance and repair of renewable energy technologies                                                                     | SI                  |
| 8.2 Data-driven solutions for GHG emissions reductions                                                                                        | DI, SI              |
| 9.3 Professional services related to energy performance of buildings                                                                          | SI                  |

Table 28:
|:-----------------------------|:--------------------|:------------------|:----------------------------------|:------------------------|:--------------------------------------|:------------------------------|
| 3 GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING | 4 QUALITY EDUCATION | 5 GENDER EQUALITY | 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH | 10 REDUCED INEQUALITIES | 11 SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES | 17 PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS |
|                              |                     | :unselected:      |                                   |                         |                                       |                               |

Table 29:
|:-------------------------------------|:-----------------|:-----|
| Employees hired                      |                  |      |
| (in thousands)                       | Fiscal year 2023 | 2022 |
| Siemens                              | 40.7             | 47.3 |
| Europe, C.I.S.1, Middle East, Africa | 17.3             | 19.3 |
| Americas                             | 12.0             | 13.8 |
| Asia, Australia                      | 11.4             | 14.3 |

Table 30:
|:-------------------------------------|:------------|:-----|
| (as a percentage of new hires)       | Fiscal year |      |
|                                      | 2023        | 2022 |
| Siemens                              | 30          | 30   |
| Europe, C.I.S.1, Middle East, Africa | 29          | 28   |
| Americas                             | 29          | 33   |
| Asia, Australia                      | 32          | 30   |

Table 31:
|:--------------------------------------------|:----------------------|:-----|
| (in %)                                      | Fiscal year 2023 2022 |      |
| Voluntary turnover rate2                    | 5.3                   | 6.6  |
| Involuntary turnover rate3:                 | 4.3                   | 5.0  |
| · Dismissals                                | 1.1                   | 1.2  |
| · End of temporary contract, mutual consent | 1.6                   | 1.9  |
| · Retirement                                | 1.2                   | 1.3  |
| . Other reasons                             | 0.4                   | 0.6  |
| Total                                       | 9.6                   | 11.6 |

Table 32:
|:----------------------------------|:-----------------|:-----|
| Permanent and temporary employees |                  |      |
| (in thousands)                    | Fiscal year 2023 |      |
|                                   |                  | 2022 |
| Permanent                         | 300              | 290  |
| Temporary                         | 19               | 20   |
| Total                             | 320              | 311  |

Table 33:
|:---------------|:------------|:-----|
| (in thousands) | Fiscal year |      |
|                | 2023        | 2022 |
| Full-time      | 305         | 295  |
| Part-time      | 14          | 14   |
| Total          | 320         | 311  |

Table 34:
|:---------------------------------------|:-----------------|:-----|
| LTIFR Employees and Temporary Workers1 |                  |      |
|                                        | Fiscal year 2023 | 2022 |
| Employees                              | 0.23             | 0.25 |
| Temporary Workers2                     | 0.30             | 0.38 |
| Total                                  | 0.24             | 0.26 |

Table 35:
|:--------------------------|:-----------------|:-----|
| Fatalities (work-related) |                  |      |
|                           | Fiscal year 2023 | 2022 |
| Employees                 | 0                | 1    |
| Temporary Workers         | 0                | 0    |
| Contractors               | 4                | 1    |
| Total                     | 4                | 2    |

Table 36:
|:----------------------------------------------------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------|:---------------------------|:--------|:--------|:-------|:-------------------------|
| Sustainability Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)                      |                                                  | Fiscal Year/ September 30th | Unit                       | FY 2023 | FY 2022 | +/-    | Standards                |
| SIEMENS AT A GLANCE                                                   |                                                  |                             |                            |         |         |        |                          |
| Total revenue                                                         | Total                                            | Fiscal Year                 | Billion €                  | 77.8    | 72.0    | 8.0%   | GRI 201-1, WEF           |
| Net income                                                            | Total                                            | Fiscal Year                 | Billion €                  | 8.5     | 4.4     | 94.2%  | GRI 201-1, WEF           |
| Adjusted EBITA Margin for the Industrial Business                     | Total                                            | Fiscal Year                 | %                          | 15.4%   | 15.1%   | 2.0%   | GRI 201-1, WEF           |
| Research and development                                              |                                                  |                             |                            |         |         |        |                          |
| R&D expenses                                                          | Total                                            | Fiscal Year                 | Billion €                  | 6.2     | 5.6     | 10.6%  | WEF                      |
| R&D intensity                                                         | Total                                            | Fiscal Year                 | % of revenue               | 8.0%    | 7.8%    | 2.3%   | WEF                      |
| Additions to capitalized development expenses                         | Total                                            | Fiscal Year                 | Billion €                  | 0.3     | 0.3     | 1.7%   | WEF                      |
| Patents granted                                                       | Total                                            | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)              | 45,000  | 43,600  | 3.2%   | WEF                      |
| Share of patent families with SDG-relevance                           | Total                                            | Sept. 30th                  | % of total patent families | 46.8%   | 44.8%   | 4.5%   | WEF                      |
| GOVERNANCE Compliance (continuing and discontinued operations)        |                                                  |                             |                            |         |         |        |                          |
|                                                                       | Total                                            | Fiscal Year                 | No.                        | 416     | 363     | 14.6%  | GRI 205-3, GRI 2-27, WEF |
| Compliance cases reported                                             | Allegations of bribery1                          | Fiscal Year                 | No.                        | 21      | 12      | 75.0%  | GRI 205-3, GRI 2-27, WEF |
|                                                                       | Allegations of bribery related to actual year    | Fiscal Year                 | No.                        | 12      | 7       | 71.4%  | GRI 205-3, GRI 2-27, WEF |
|                                                                       | Allegations of bribery related to previous years | Fiscal Year                 | No.                        | 11      | 5       | 120.0% | GRI 205-3, GRI 2-27, WEF |
| Disciplinary sanctions                                                | Total                                            | Fiscal Year                 | No.                        | 166     | 212     | -21.7% | GRI 205-3, WEF           |
|                                                                       | Warnings                                         | Fiscal Year                 | No.                        | 87      | 90      | -3.3%  | GRI 205-3, WEF           |
|                                                                       | Dismissals                                       | Fiscal Year                 | No.                        | 43      | 74      | -41.9% | GRI 205-3, WEF           |
|                                                                       | Others2                                          | Fiscal Year                 | No.                        | 36      | 48      | -25.0% | GRI 205-3, WEF           |
| BCG training - graduating quota current year                          | Total                                            | Fiscal Year                 | % of invited employees     | 67.9%   | 96.3%   | -29.5% | GRI 205-2, WEF           |
| BCG training - persons graduating current year                        | Total                                            | Fiscal Year                 | No. (rounded)              | 129,300 | 102,000 | 26.8%  | GRI 205-2, WEF           |
|                                                                       | EMEA                                             | Fiscal Year                 | No. (rounded)              | 75,900  | 50,000  | 51.8%  | GRI 205-2, WEF           |
|                                                                       | Americas                                         | Fiscal Year                 | No. (rounded)              | 22,900  | 19,000  | 20.5%  | GRI 205-2, WEF           |
|                                                                       | Asia, Australia                                  | Fiscal Year                 | No. (rounded)              | 30,500  | 20,000  | 52.5%  | GRI 205-2, WEF           |
| Other specific compliance trainings - persons graduating current year | Total                                            | Fiscal Year                 | No. (rounded)              | 461,000 | 409,000 | 12.7%  | GRI 205-2, WEF           |
| Integrity Initiative - Projects                                       | Total                                            | up to Sept. 30th            | No.                        | 85      | 85      | 0.0%   | WEF                      |
| Integrity Initiative - Finance budget provided                        | Total                                            | up to Sept. 30th            | Million US$ (rounded)      | 120     | 120     | 0.0%   | WEF                      |

Table 37:
|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------|:----------------|:----------------------------|:--------------------|:--------|:--------|:-------|:------------------------------------|
| Sustainability Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)                            |                 | Fiscal Year/ September 30th | Unit                | FY 2023 | FY 2022 | +/-    | Standards                           |
| Sustainable supply chain management                                         |                 |                             |                     |         |         |        |                                     |
| Purchasing Volume (PVO)                                                     | Total           | Fiscal Year                 | Billion €           | 36.9    | 34.6    | 6.7%   | GRI 2-6                             |
| Number of relevant (> €10,000 annual volume) suppliers                      | Total           | Fiscal Year                 | No. (rounded)       | 67,700  | 66,000  | 2.6%   | GRI 2-6                             |
| Corporate responsibility self-assessments (CSRA)3                           | Total           | Fiscal Year                 | No.                 | 5,096   | 4,912   | 3.7%   | GRI 308-2, 408-1, 409-1, 414-2      |
|                                                                             | EMEA            | Fiscal Year                 | No.                 | 1,122   | 1,147   | -2.2%  | GRI 308-2, 408-1, 409-1, 414-2      |
|                                                                             | Americas        | Fiscal Year                 | No.                 | 767     | 654     | 17.3%  | GRI 308-2, 408-1, 409-1, 414-2      |
|                                                                             | Asia, Australia | Fiscal Year                 | No.                 | 3,207   | 3,111   | 3.1%   | GRI 308-2, 408-1, 409-1, 414-2      |
| Agreed improvement measures out of CSRAs                                    | Total           | Fiscal Year                 | No.                 | 5,493   | 3,109   | 76.7%  | GRI 308-2, 414-2                    |
| External sustainability audits                                              | Total           | Fiscal Year                 | No.                 | 481     | 426     | 12.9%  | GRI 308-2, 408-1, 409-1, 414-2, WEF |
|                                                                             | EMEA            | Fiscal Year                 | No.                 | 97      | 113     | -14.2% | GRI 308-2, 408-1, 409-1, 414-2, WEF |
|                                                                             | Americas        | Fiscal Year                 | No.                 | 51      | 50      | 2.0%   | GRI 308-2, 408-1, 409-1, 414-2, WEF |
|                                                                             | Asia, Australia | Fiscal Year                 | No.                 | 333     | 263     | 26.6%  | GRI 308-2, 408-1, 409-1, 414-2, WEF |
| Agreed improvement measures out of external sustainability audits           | Total           | Fiscal Year                 | No.                 | 9,521   | 7,275   | 30.9%  | GRI 308-2, 414-2, WEF               |
| ENVIRONMENT Holistic environmental protection                               |                 |                             |                     |         |         |        |                                     |
| Sites with environmental management system ISO 14001 certification          | Total           | Sept. 30th                  | No.                 | 182     | 184     | -1.1%  |                                     |
| Share of sites with environmental management system ISO 14001 certification | Total           | Sept. 30th                  | % of reported sites | 73%     | 72%     | 0.5%   |                                     |

Table 38:
|:-------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------|:----------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------|:--------|:--------|:-------|:----------------------|
| Sustainability Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) |                                  | Fiscal Year/ September 30th | Unit                                             | FY 2023 | FY 2022 | +/-    | Standards             |
| Climate action                                   |                                  |                             |                                                  |         |         |        |                       |
| Greenhouse gas emissions                         |                                  |                             |                                                  |         |         |        |                       |
| Scope 1                                          | Total                            | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions              | 387     | 393     | -1.6%  | GRI 305-1, WEF        |
|                                                  | CO2 emissions                    | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions              | 342     | 357     | -4.4%  | GRI 305-1, WEF        |
|                                                  | CO2 emissions from gas           | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions              | 109     | 138     | -20.8% | GRI 305-1, WEF        |
|                                                  | CO2 emissions from LPG           | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO,e emissions              | 5       | 1       | 332.2% | GRI 305-1, WEF        |
|                                                  | :unselected:                     |                             |                                                  |         |         |        |                       |
|                                                  | CO2 emissions from heating oil   | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions              | 15      | 2       | 643.9% | GRI 305-1, WEF        |
|                                                  | CO2 emissions from fleet fuel    | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions              | 210     | 213     | -1.7%  | GRI 305-1, WEF        |
|                                                  | CO2 emissions from site fuel     | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions              | 3       | 3       | 5.8%   | GRI 305-1, WEF        |
|                                                  | CO2 emissions from coal          | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO,e emissions              | 0       | 0       |        | GRI 305-1, WEF        |
|                                                  | CO2 emissions from technical CO2 | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions              | 0.2     | 0.1     | 37.1%  | GRI 305-1, WEF        |
|                                                  | SF, emissions                    | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions              | 30      | 23      | 31.7%  | GRI 305-1, WEF        |
|                                                  | CH4 emissions                    | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO,e emissions              | < 0,1   | < 0,1   |        | GRI 305-1, WEF        |
|                                                  | N2O emissions                    | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions              | 0.0     | 0.2     | -91.8% | GRI 305-1, WEF        |
|                                                  | HFC emissions                    | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions              | 15.4    | 12.1    | 26.8%  | GRI 305-1, WEF        |
|                                                  | PFC emissions                    | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions              | 0       | 0       |        | GRI 305-1, WEF        |
|                                                  | NF3 emissions                    | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO,e emissions              | < 0,1   | < 0,1   |        | GRI 305-1, WEF        |
|                                                  | Acetylene emissions              | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions              | 0.1     | 1       | -85.9% | GRI 305-1, WEF        |
| Scope 2                                          | Total (market based)             | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions              | 163     | 189     | -13.5% | GRI 305-2, WEF        |
|                                                  | Market based from electricity    | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions              | 142     | 164     | -13.9% | GRI 305-2, WEF        |
|                                                  | Market based from heating        | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions              | 22      | 24      | -11.1% | GRI 305-2, WEF        |
|                                                  | Total (location based)           | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions              | 624     | 670     | -6.8%  | GRI 305-2, WEF        |
|                                                  | Location based from electricity  | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions              | 597     | 633     | -5.7%  | GRI 305-2, WEF        |
|                                                  | Location based from heating      | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO,e emissions              | 28      | 37      | -25.3% | GRI 305-2, WEF        |
| Scope 1+2                                        | Total                            | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions              | 550     | 582     | -5.5%  | GRI 305-1, 305-2, WEF |
| Scope 1+2 intensity                              | Total                            | Fiscal Year                 | metric tons of CO2e emissions per Mio. € revenue | 7.1     | 8.1     | -12.5% | GRI 305-4, WEF        |
| Scope 1+2 reduction to last year                 | Total                            | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions              | 32      | 13      | 144.3% | GRI 305-5, WEF        |

Table 39:
|:------------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------|:----------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------|:--------|:--------|:-------|:---------------|
| Sustainability Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)            |                                              | Fiscal Year/ September 30th | Unit                                             | FY 2023 | FY 2022 | +/-    | Standards      |
| Reduced emissions through energy from renewable sources     | Total (Scope 1 + 2)                          | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions              | 467     | 482     | -3.2%  | GRI 305-5, WEF |
|                                                             | Gas from renewable sources (Scope 1)         | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions              | 13      | 184     | -26.0% | GRI 305-5, WEF |
|                                                             | Electricity from renewable sources (Scope 2) | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions              | 454     | 465     | -2.4%  | GRI 305-5, WEF |
| Scope 3                                                     | Total                                        | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions              | 483,188 | 457,606 | 5.6%   | GRI 305-3, WEF |
| Scope 3 upstream                                            | Total                                        | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions              | 11,048  | 11,515  | -4.1%  | GRI 305-3, WEF |
|                                                             | Purchased goods and services                 | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO,e emissions              | 9,276   | 9,557   | -2.9%  | GRI 305-3, WEF |
|                                                             | Capital goods                                | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions              | 416     | 458     | -9.2%  | GRI 305-3, WEF |
|                                                             | Fuel- and energy- related activities         | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions              | 111     | 137     | -19.0% | GRI 305-3, WEF |
|                                                             | Waste in operations                          | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions              | 29      | 25      | 16.0%  | GRI 305-3, WEF |
|                                                             | Transportation                               | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions              | 884     | 1,118   | -20.9% | GRI 305-3, WEF |
|                                                             | Business travel                              | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions              | 227     | 122     | 85.4%  | GRI 305-3, WEF |
|                                                             | Employee commuting                           | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions              | 105     | 98      | 7.1%   | GRI 305-3, WEF |
| Scope 3 downstream                                          | Total                                        | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO,e emissions              | 472,140 | 446,090 | 5.8%   | GRI 305-3, WEF |
|                                                             | Use of sold products                         | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions              | 469,180 | 442,175 | 6.1%   | GRI 305-3, WEF |
|                                                             | Investment SFS5                              | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions              | 2,960   | 3,915   | -24.4% | GRI 305-3, WEF |
| Scope 3 downstream intensity                                | Total                                        | Fiscal Year                 | metric tons of CO,e emissions per Mio. € revenue | 6,071   | 6,198   | -2.0%  | GRI 305-4, WEF |
| GHG emissions Scope 1+2+3 upstream ("Cradle to gate")       | Total                                        | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO,e emissions              | 11,598  | 12,097  | -4.1%  | GRI 305-3, WEF |
| Biogenic CO2e emissions                                     | Total                                        | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO,e emissions              | 15      | 19      | -22.2% |                |
| Greenhouse gas emissions - Fleet and real estate management |                                              |                             |                                                  |         |         |        |                |
| Siemens fleet (owned or leased vehicles)                    | Total number                                 | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)                                    | 44,000  | 42,000  | 4.8%   |                |
|                                                             | Electrical vehicles                          | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)                                    | 4,100   | 1,350   | 203.7% |                |
|                                                             | Hybrid vehicles                              | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)                                    | 2,500   | 3,150   | -20.6% |                |
|                                                             | Electrical and hybrid vehicles               | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)                                    | 6,600   | 4,500   | 46.7%  |                |
|                                                             | Rate of electrical and hybrid vehicles       | Sept. 30th                  | % of total fleet                                 | 15%     | 11%     | 40.0%  |                |
|                                                             | Rate of electrical vehicles                  | Sept. 30th                  | % of total fleet                                 | 9%      | 3%      | 189.9% |                |
|                                                             | Fleet emissions (part of Scope 1 emissions)  | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions              | 210     | 213     | -1.7%  | GRI 305-1, WEF |
|                                                             | Fuel consumption fleet                       | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 gigajoule                                  | 2,894   | 2,920   | -0.9%  |                |

Table 40:
|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------|:----------------------------|:-----------------------------------|:--------|:--------|:-------|:-----------------------------|
| Sustainability Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)                                                                  |                                               | Fiscal Year/ September 30th | Unit                               | FY 2023 | FY 2022 | +/-    | Standards                    |
| Siemens sites with Net Zero CO,e emissions                                                                        | Total                                         | Sept. 30th                  | No.                                | 37      | 41      | -9.8%  |                              |
| Charging poles on company ground for electrical vehicles                                                          | Total                                         | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)                      | 2,750   | 2,200   | 25.0%  |                              |
| Use phase impact at customers                                                                                     |                                               |                             |                                    |         |         |        |                              |
| Avoided emissions: Greenhouse gas reductions achieved by our customers through products of the Siemens Portfolio6 | Total                                         | Fiscal Year                 | Mt CO2e                            | 189.9   | 153.2   | 24.0%  |                              |
| EU Taxonomy                                                                                                       |                                               |                             |                                    |         |         |        |                              |
| Share eligible revenue                                                                                            | Total                                         | Fiscal Year                 | % of revenue                       | 20.3%   | 20.1%   | 0.5%   |                              |
| Share aligned revenue                                                                                             | Total                                         | Fiscal Year                 | % of revenue                       | 16.5%   | n.a.    |        |                              |
| Share eligible operational expenditures                                                                           | Total                                         | Fiscal Year                 | % of relevant OpEx                 | 12.4%   | 13.5%   | -8.2%  |                              |
| Share aligned operational expenditures                                                                            | Total                                         | Fiscal Year                 | % of relevant OpEx                 | 8.2%    | n.a.    |        |                              |
| Share eligible capital expenditures                                                                               | Total                                         | Fiscal Year                 | % of relevant CapEx                | 34.5%   | 39.7%   | -13.3% |                              |
| Share aligned capital expenditures                                                                                | Total                                         | Fiscal Year                 | % of relevant CapEx                | 12.2%   | n.a.    |        |                              |
| Conservation of Resources                                                                                         |                                               |                             |                                    |         |         |        |                              |
| Energy Consumption: primary & secondary energy                                                                    | Total                                         | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 gigajoule                    | 9,115   | 9,802   | -7.0%  | GRI 302-1, SASB RT-EE-130a.1 |
|                                                                                                                   | Share of renewable energy sources             | Fiscal Year                 | % of total energy consumption      | 51.1%   | 47.6%4  | 7.5%   | GRI 302-1, SASB RT-EE-130a.1 |
|                                                                                                                   | Share of grid electricity                     | Fiscal Year                 | % of total energy consumption      | 61.3%   | 57.4%   | 6.7%   | GRI 302-1, SASB RT-EE-130a.1 |
| Primary & secondary energy intensity                                                                              | Total                                         | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 gigajoule per Mio. € revenue | 0.117   | 0.136   | -13.9% | GRI 302-1, SASB RT-EE-130a.1 |
| Energy Consumption: primary energy                                                                                | Total                                         | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 gigajoule                    | 2,513   | 3,010   | -16.5% | GRI 302-1, SASB RT-EE-130a.1 |
|                                                                                                                   | Natural gas & liquid gas                      | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 gigajoule                    | 2,277   | 2,927   | -22.2% | GRI 302-1, SASB RT-EE-130a.1 |
|                                                                                                                   | Gas from renewable sources                    | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 gigajoule                    | 233     | 3154    | -26.0% | GRI 302-1, SASB RT-EE-130a.1 |
|                                                                                                                   | Gas share from renewable sources              | Fiscal Year                 | % of total gas used                | 10%     | 11%     | -4.9%  | GRI 302-1, SASB RT-EE-130a.1 |
|                                                                                                                   | Fuel oil, gasoline, diesel                    | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 gigajoule                    | 232     | 63      | 269.5% | GRI 302-1, SASB RT-EE-130a.1 |
| Energy consumption: secondary energy                                                                              | Total                                         | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 gigajoule                    | 6,602   | 6,792   | -2.8%  | GRI 302-1, SASB RT-EE-130a.1 |
|                                                                                                                   | Electricity (total)                           | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 gigajoule                    | 5,586   | 5,629   | -0.8%  | GRI 302-1, SASB RT-EE-130a.1 |
|                                                                                                                   | Electricity (renewable sources)               | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 gigajoule                    | 4,426   | 4,347   | 1.8%   | GRI 302-1, SASB RT-EE-130a.1 |
|                                                                                                                   | Electricity Share of renewable energy sources | Fiscal Year                 | % of total electricity used        | 79%     | 77%     | 2.6%   | GRI 302-1, SASB RT-EE-130a.1 |
|                                                                                                                   | District heating                              | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 gigajoule                    | 1,016   | 1,163   | -12.6% | GRI 302-1, SASB RT-EE-130a.1 |

Table 41:
|:-------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------------|:----------------------------|:---------------------------------------|:--------|:--------|:--------|:-----------------------------|
| Sustainability Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) |                                             | Fiscal Year/ September 30th | Unit                                   | FY 2023 | FY 2022 | +/-     | Standards                    |
| Efficiency in energy                             | Total (w/o SHS)                             | Fiscal Year                 | % revenue weighted to base year (2021) | 39%     | 13%     | 196.4%  |                              |
| Energy reduction                                 | Total (w/o SHS)                             | Fiscal Year                 | % to base year (2021)                  | 9.1%    | 3.4%    | 163.9%  |                              |
| Waste                                            |                                             |                             |                                        |         |         |         |                              |
| Waste                                            | Total                                       | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 tons                             | 261.2   | 256.24  | 2.0%    | GRI 306-3                    |
|                                                  | Non-hazardous waste                         | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 tons                             | 214.7   | 224.4   | -4.3%   | GRI 306-3                    |
|                                                  | Hazardous waste                             | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 tons                             | 12.7    | 13.74   | -7.8%   | GRI 306-3, SASB RT-EE-150a.1 |
|                                                  | Construction waste                          | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 tons                             | 33.9    | 18.0    | 88.0%   | GRI 306-3                    |
| Non-hazardous waste                              | Total                                       | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 tons                             | 214.7   | 224.4   | -4.3%   | GRI 306-3                    |
|                                                  | Recycling and Recovery                      | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 tons                             | 203.8   | 213.5   | -4.5%   | GRI 306-3                    |
|                                                  | Recycling (material)                        | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 tons                             | 179.6   | 186.2   | -3.6%   | GRI 306-3                    |
|                                                  | Recovery (thermal)                          | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 tons                             | 24.2    | 27.2    | -11.2%  | GRI 306-3                    |
|                                                  | Landfill and other disposal                 | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 tons                             | 10.9    | 11.0    | -0.9%   | GRI 306-3                    |
|                                                  | Landfill                                    | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 tons                             | 9.0     | 8.9     | 1.9%    | GRI 306-3                    |
|                                                  | Other disposal (thermal/chemical/ physical) | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 tons                             | 1.8     | 2.1     | -12.7%  | GRI 306-3                    |
| Hazardous waste                                  | Total                                       | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 tons                             | 12.7    | 13.74   | -7.8%   | GRI 306-3, SASB RT-EE-150a.1 |
|                                                  | Recycling and Recovery                      | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 tons                             | 7.2     | 8.74    | -17.2%  | GRI 306-3, SASB RT-EE-150a.1 |
|                                                  | Recycling (material)                        | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 tons                             | 5.6     | 7.34    | -22.4%  | GRI 306-3, SASB RT-EE-150a.1 |
|                                                  | Recovery (thermal)                          | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 tons                             | 1.6     | 1.5     | 7.9%    | GRI 306-3, SASB RT-EE-150a.1 |
|                                                  | Landfill and other disposal                 | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 tons                             | 5.4     | 5.0     | 8.8%    | GRI 306-3, SASB RT-EE-150a.1 |
|                                                  | Landfill                                    | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 tons                             | 0.9     | 0.7     | 28.1%   | GRI 306-3, SASB RT-EE-150a.1 |
|                                                  | Other disposal (thermal/chemical/ physical) | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 tons                             | 4.5     | 4.3     | 5.7%    | GRI 306-3, SASB RT-EE-150a.1 |
| Construction waste                               | Total                                       | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 tons                             | 33.9    | 18.0    | 88.0%   | GRI 306-3                    |
|                                                  | Recycling and Recovery                      | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 tons                             | 27.0    | 17.4    | 55.2%   | GRI 306-3                    |
|                                                  | Landfill and other disposal                 | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 tons                             | 6.9     | 0.6     | 1052.9% | GRI 306-3                    |
| Total waste (w/o construction waste)             | Total                                       | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 tons                             | 227.3   | 238.14  | -4.5%   | GRI 306-3                    |
|                                                  | Recycling and Recovery                      | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 tons                             | 211.0   | 222.24  | -5.0%   | GRI 306-4                    |
|                                                  | Recycling (material)                        | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 tons                             | 185.2   | 193.54  | -4.3%   | GRI 306-3                    |
|                                                  | Recovery (thermal)                          | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 tons                             | 25.8    | 28.7    | -10.2%  | GRI 306-3                    |
|                                                  | Landfill and other disposal                 | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 tons                             | 16.3    | 15.9    | 2.1%    | GRI 306-3                    |
|                                                  | Landfill                                    | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 tons                             | 9.9     | 9.6     | 3.8%    | GRI 306-3                    |
|                                                  | Other disposal (thermal/chemical/ physical) | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 tons                             | 6.4     | 6.4     | -0.3%   | GRI 306-3                    |

Table 42:
|:-------------------------------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------|:------------------------------------|:--------|:--------|:-------|:---------------|
| Sustainability Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) |                                                                                                        | Fiscal Year/ September 30th | Unit                                | FY 2023 | FY 2022 | +/-    | Standards      |
| Recycling & Recovery rate                        | Total (w/o construction)                                                                               | Fiscal Year                 | % of total waste (w/o construction) | 93%     | 93%     | -0.5%  | GRI 306-4      |
|                                                  | Hazardous waste                                                                                        | Fiscal Year                 | % of total hazardous waste          | 57%     | 64%4    | -10.3% | GRI 306-4      |
|                                                  | Non-hazardous waste                                                                                    | Fiscal Year                 | % of total non- hazardous waste     | 95%     | 95%     | -0.2%  | GRI 306-4      |
|                                                  | Construction waste                                                                                     | Fiscal Year                 | % of construction waste             | 80%     | 97%     | -17.5% | GRI 306-4      |
| Material Recycling rate                          | Total (w/o construction)                                                                               | Fiscal Year                 | % of total waste (w/o construction) | 81%     | 81%     | 0.3%   | GRI 306-4      |
| Upstream waste7                                  |                                                                                                        |                             |                                     |         |         |        |                |
| Upstream waste                                   | Total                                                                                                  | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 tons                          | 1,433   | 1,4128  | 1.5%   | GRI 306-1      |
|                                                  | Non-hazardous waste                                                                                    | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 tons                          | 1,369   | 1,3498  | 1.5%   | GRI 306-1      |
|                                                  | Hazardous waste                                                                                        | Fiscal Year                 | 1,000 tons                          | 63      | 638     | 1.0%   | GRI 306-1      |
| Water                                            |                                                                                                        |                             |                                     |         |         |        |                |
| Water withdrawal                                 | Total                                                                                                  | Fiscal Year                 | Million cubic meter                 | 14.26   | 12.93   | 10.3%  | GRI 303-3, WEF |
|                                                  | Surface water                                                                                          | Fiscal Year                 | Million cubic meter                 | 1.10    | 1.03    | 7.0%   | GRI 303-3, WEF |
|                                                  | Groundwater                                                                                            | Fiscal Year                 | Million cubic meter                 | 9.26    | 7.94    | 16.6%  | GRI 303-3, WEF |
|                                                  | 3rd party water                                                                                        | Fiscal Year                 | Million cubic meter                 | 3.85    | 3.91    | -1.5%  | GRI 303-3, WEF |
|                                                  | Other sources                                                                                          | Fiscal Year                 | Million cubic meter                 | 0.05    | 0.04    | 9.9%   | GRI 303-3, WEF |
| Water withdrawal intensity                       | Total                                                                                                  | Fiscal Year                 | Cubic meter per Mio. € revenue      | 183.39  | 179.71  | 2.0%   | GRI 303-3, WEF |
| Water withdrawal in water-stressed areas         | Total                                                                                                  | Fiscal Year                 | Million cubic meter                 | 1.36    | 1.344   | 1.0%   | GRI 303-3, WEF |
|                                                  | Share of withdrawal                                                                                    | Fiscal Year                 | % of total withdrawal               | 10%     | 10%4    | -8.4%  | GRI 303-3, WEF |
| Water consumption                                | Total                                                                                                  | Fiscal Year                 | Million cubic meter                 | 0.51    | 0.45    | 13.3%  | GRI 303-5      |
| Water consumption intensity                      | Total                                                                                                  | Fiscal Year                 | Cubic meter per Mio. € revenue      | 6.52    | 6.22    | 4.8%   | GRI 303-5      |
| Water consumption in water-stressed areas        | Total                                                                                                  | Fiscal Year                 | Million cubic meter                 | 0.07    | 0.07    | 1.5%   | GRI 303-5      |
|                                                  | Consumption share                                                                                      | Fiscal Year                 | % of total consumption              | 15%     | 16.2%   | -10.4% | GRI 303-5      |
| Water discharge                                  | Total                                                                                                  | Fiscal Year                 | Million cubic meter                 | 13.56   | 12.36   | 9.7%   | GRI 303-4      |
|                                                  | Surface water                                                                                          | Fiscal Year                 | Million cubic meter                 | 1.03    | 1.07    | -3.4%  | GRI 303-4      |
|                                                  | Groundwater                                                                                            | Fiscal Year                 | Million cubic meter                 | 9.20    | 7.73    | 19.0%  | GRI 303-4      |
|                                                  | 3rd party water                                                                                        | Fiscal Year                 | Million cubic meter                 | 3.33    | 3.56    | -6.5%  | GRI 303-4      |
| Discharge usage                                  | Total                                                                                                  | Fiscal Year                 | Million cubic meter                 | 13.56   | 12.36   | 9.7%   | GRI 303-4      |
|                                                  | Sanitary wastewater                                                                                    | Fiscal Year                 | Million cubic meter                 | 2.80    | 2.90    | -3.6%  | GRI303-4       |
|                                                  | Manufacturing processes                                                                                | Fiscal Year                 | Million cubic meter                 | 0.61    | 0.55    | 11.7%  | GRI303-4       |
|                                                  | Other (including losses)                                                                               | Fiscal Year                 | Million cubic meter                 | 0.24    | 0.33    | -26.3% | GRI303-4       |
|                                                  | Cooling water dis- charged as wastewater                                                               | Fiscal Year                 | Million cubic meter                 | 0.14    | 0.13    | 5.2%   | GRI303-4       |
|                                                  | Chemically unchanged cooling water (returned to receiving water body chemically unchanged, but warmed) | Fiscal Year                 | Million cubic meter                 | 9.80    | 8.49    | 15.5%  | GRI303-4       |

Table 43:
|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------|:----------------------------|:------------------------------|:--------|:--------|:-------|:----------------------------|
| Sustainability Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)                         |                            | Fiscal Year/ September 30th | Unit                          | FY 2023 | FY 2022 | +/-    | Standards                   |
| Rate of sites with implemented water strategy                            | Total                      | Sept. 30th                  | % of sites                    | 96%     | 93%     | 3.8%   | GRI 303-1, WEF              |
| Atmospheric pollutant emissions                                          |                            |                             |                               |         |         |        |                             |
| Volatile Organic Compounds                                               | Total                      | Fiscal Year                 | metric tons                   | 249.7   | 274.4   | -9.0%  | GRI 305-7                   |
| Ozone-depleting substances                                               | Total                      | Fiscal Year                 | metric tons (R11 equivalent)9 | 0.044   | 0.036   | 22.3%  | GRI 305-6                   |
| Nitrogen oxides                                                          | Total                      | Fiscal Year                 | metric tons                   | 53.5    | 57.6    | -7.1%  | GRI 305-7                   |
| Sulphur oxides                                                           | Total                      | Fiscal Year                 | metric tons                   | 1.18    | 0.94    | 25.5%  | GRI 305-7                   |
| Respirable dust                                                          | Total                      | Fiscal Year                 | metric tons                   | 0.23    | 0.08    | 186.7% | GRI 305-7                   |
| Additional environmental topics                                          |                            |                             |                               |         |         |        |                             |
| Environment-related incidents with significant fines                     | Total                      | Fiscal Year                 | No.                           | 0       | n.a. 10 |        | GRI 307-1, SASB RT-EE-150a2 |
| Amount of significant fines                                              | Total                      | Fiscal Year                 | €                             | 0       | n.a. 10 |        | GRI 307-1, SASB RT-EE-150a2 |
|                                                                          | Total                      | Fiscal Year                 | No.                           | 14      | 7       | 100.0% | GRI 307-1, SASB RT-EE-150a2 |
| Reportable spills                                                        | Quantity reportable spills | Fiscal Year                 | kg                            | 3,319   | 2,562   | 29.5%  | GRI 307-1, SASB RT-EE-150a2 |
|                                                                          | Quantity recovered spills  | Fiscal Year                 | kg                            | 2,079   | 342     | 507.7% | GRI 307-1, SASB RT-EE-150a2 |
| Sites with energy management system ISO 50001 certification              | Total                      | Sept. 30th                  | No.                           | 45      | 38      | 18.4%  |                             |
| Sites in or adjacent to protected areas                                  | Total                      | Sept. 30th                  | No.                           | 25      | 20      | 25.0%  | WEF                         |
| Area of sites in or adjacent to protected areas                          | Total                      | Sept. 30th                  | Hectare                       | 29011   | 184     | 57.2%  | WEF                         |
| Product Stewardship                                                      |                            |                             |                               |         |         |        |                             |
| Lifecycle assessment (LCA)12                                             | Total                      | Sept. 30th                  | No.                           | 334     | 92      | 263.0% |                             |
| Environmental Product Declarations (EPD)                                 | Total                      | Sept. 30th                  | No.                           | 1,540   | 1,346   | 14.4%  |                             |
| Share of lifecycle assessment (LCA) revenue13                            | Total (w/o SHS)            | Fiscal Year                 | % of total revenue14          | 39%     | 27%8    | 45.8%  |                             |
| Share of Environmental Product Declarations (EPD) revenue13              | Total (w/o SHS)            | Fiscal Year                 | % of total revenue14          | 36%     | 22%8    | 64.1%  |                             |
| Rate of products by revenue that contain IEC 62474-declarable substances | Total (w/o SHS)            | Fiscal Year                 | % of total revenue14          | 50%     | 49%     | 2.2%   | SASB RT-EE- 410a1           |

Table 44:
|:-------------------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------|:----------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------|:--------|:--------|:-------|:-------------------------|
| Sustainability Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) |                                                | Fiscal Year/ September 30th | Unit                                                                | FY 2023 | FY 2022 | +/-    | Standards                |
| SOCIAL Working for Siemens15                     |                                                |                             |                                                                     |         |         |        |                          |
| Siemens employees16                              | Total                                          | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)                                                       | 320,000 | 311,000 | 2.9%   | GRI 2-7, SASB RT-EE_000B |
| Other internal workforce17                       | Total                                          | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)                                                       | 17,200  | 16,900  | 1.8%   | GRI 2-7                  |
| External/third party workers18                   | Germany                                        | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)                                                       | 4,400   | 4,400   | 0.0%   | GRI 2-8                  |
| Employee structure 19                            | EMEA                                           | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)                                                       | 175,000 | 172,000 | 1.7%   | GRI 2-7                  |
|                                                  | Americas                                       | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)                                                       | 66,000  | 64,000  | 3.1%   | GRI 2-7                  |
|                                                  | Asia, Australia                                | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)                                                       | 78,000  | 75,000  | 4.0%   | GRI 2-7                  |
|                                                  | Women                                          | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)                                                       | 88,000  | 84,000  | 4.8%   | GRI 2-7, WEF             |
|                                                  | Men                                            | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)                                                       | 231,000 | 225,000 | 2.7%   | GRI 2-7, WEF             |
|                                                  | No/other gender entry                          | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)                                                       | 140     | 180     | -22.2% | GRI 2-7, WEF             |
|                                                  | Gender n/a                                     | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)                                                       | 900     | 1,600   | -43.8% | GRI 2-7, WEF             |
|                                                  | Age group < 30                                 | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)                                                       | 50,000  | 48,000  | 4.2%   | GRI 2-7                  |
|                                                  | Age group 30 - 50                              | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)                                                       | 188,000 | 182,000 | 3.3%   | GRI 2-7                  |
|                                                  | Age group > 50                                 | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)                                                       | 81,000  | 79,000  | 2.5%   | GRI 2-7                  |
|                                                  | Age n/a                                        | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)                                                       | 900     | 1,600   | -43.8% | GRI 2-7                  |
|                                                  | Young workers below 15 years                   | Sept. 30th                  | % of total employees                                                | 0.0%    | 0.0%    |        | GRI 405-1, WEF           |
|                                                  | Young workers 15 - 17 years                    | Sept. 30th                  | % of total employees                                                | 0.0%    | 0.0%    |        | GRI 405-1, WEF           |
|                                                  | Blue-collar workers                            | Sept. 30th                  | % of total employees                                                | 16.9%   | 17.3%   | -2.3%  | WEF                      |
|                                                  | White-collar workers                           | Sept. 30th                  | % of total employees                                                | 83.1%   | 82.7%   | 0.5%   | WEF                      |
| Disabled employees20                             | Germany                                        | Sept. 30th                  | % of employees in Germany                                           | 5.6%    | 5.7%    | -1.8%  | GRI 405-1, WEF           |
|                                                  | Germany - Top management positions             | Sept. 30th                  | % of employees in Germany in top management positions               | 0.0%    | 0.0%    |        | GRI 405-1, WEF           |
|                                                  | Germany - Middle & junior management positions | Sept. 30th                  | % of employees in Germany in middle & junior manage- ment positions | 1.9%    | 1.8%    | 5.6%   | GRI 405-1, WEF           |
|                                                  | Germany - Non-management positions             | Sept. 30th                  | % of employees in Germany in non-management positions               | 5.3%    | 5.5%    | -3.6%  | GRI 405-1, WEF           |
| Employee nationalities21                         | Total                                          | Sept. 30th                  | No.                                                                 | 170     | 168     | 1.2%   | GRI 405-1                |

Table 45:
|:-------------------------------------------------|:----------------------|:----------------------------|:---------------------|:--------|:--------|:-------|:--------------|
| Sustainability Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) |                       | Fiscal Year/ September 30th | Unit                 | FY 2023 | FY 2022 | +/-    | Standards     |
| Top nationalities worldwide21                    | German                | Sept. 30th                  | % of total employees | 25%     | 26%     | -2.1%  | GRI 405-1     |
|                                                  | American              | Sept. 30th                  | % of total employees | 14%     | 14%     | 0.0%   | GRI 405-1     |
|                                                  | Indian                | Sept. 30th                  | % of total employees | 12%     | 11%     | 5.5%   | GRI 405-1     |
|                                                  | Chinese               | Sept. 30th                  | % of total employees | 10%     | 10%     | 0.0%   | GRI 405-1     |
|                                                  | Czech                 | Sept. 30th                  | % of total employees | 3%      | 3%      | 0.0%   | GRI 405-1     |
|                                                  | Other nationalities   | Sept. 30th                  | % of total employees | 36%     | 36%     | 0.0%   | GRI 405-1     |
| Employment characteristics22                     |                       |                             |                      |         |         |        |               |
| Employees with permanent working contract        | Total                 | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)        | 300,100 | 289,600 | 3.6%   | GRI 2-7b, WEF |
|                                                  | EMEA                  | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)        | 170,300 | 165,300 | 3.0%   | GRI 2-7b, WEF |
|                                                  | Americas              | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)        | 65,400  | 63,300  | 3.3%   | GRI 2-7b, WEF |
|                                                  | Asia, Australia       | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)        | 64,400  | 61,000  | 5.6%   | GRI 2-7b, WEF |
|                                                  | Women                 | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)        | 81,500  | 77,900  | 4.6%   | GRI 2-7b, WEF |
|                                                  | Men                   | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)        | 218,400 | 211,500 | 3.3%   | GRI 2-7b, WEF |
|                                                  | No/other gender entry | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)        | 140     | 170     | -17.6% | GRI 2-7b, WEF |
| Employees with temporary working contract        | Total                 | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)        | 18,500  | 19,500  | -5.1%  | GRI 2-7b, WEF |
|                                                  | EMEA                  | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)        | 4,800   | 5,200   | -7.7%  | GRI 2-7b, WEF |
|                                                  | Americas              | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)        | 400     | 400     | 0.0%   | GRI 2-7b, WEF |
|                                                  | Asia, Australia       | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)        | 13,400  | 13,900  | -3.6%  | GRI 2-7b, WEF |
|                                                  | Women                 | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)        | 6,100   | 6,300   | -3.2%  | GRI 2-7b, WEF |
|                                                  | Men                   | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)        | 12,500  | 13,200  | -5.3%  | GRI 2-7b, WEF |
|                                                  | No/other gender entry | Sept. 30th                  | No.                  | 2       | 12      | -83.3% | GRI 2-7b, WEF |
| Permanent/temporary working contract             | Contract type n/a     | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)        | 900     | 1,600   | -43.8% | GRI 2-7b, WEF |
| Full-time employees in headcount                 | Total                 | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)        | 304,500 | 295,400 | 3.1%   | GRI 2-7       |
|                                                  | EMEA                  | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)        | 161,400 | 157,200 | 2.7%   | GRI 2-7       |
|                                                  | Americas              | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)        | 65,500  | 63,400  | 3.3%   | GRI 2-7       |
|                                                  | Asia, Australia       | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)        | 77,600  | 74,700  | 3.9%   | GRI 2-7       |
|                                                  | Women                 | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)        | 78,100  | 74,700  | 4.6%   | GRI 2-7       |
|                                                  | Men                   | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)        | 226,300 | 220,400 | 2.7%   | GRI 2-7       |
|                                                  | No/other gender entry | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)        | 140     | 180     | -22.2% | GRI 2-7       |
| Part-time employees in headcount                 | Total                 | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)        | 14,100  | 13,800  | 2.2%   | GRI 2-7       |
|                                                  | EMEA                  | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)        | 13,600  | 13,300  | 2.3%   | GRI 2-7       |
|                                                  | Americas              | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)        | 300     | 300     | 0.0%   | GRI 2-7       |
|                                                  | Asia, Australia       | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)        | 160     | 150     | 6.7%   | GRI 2-7       |
|                                                  | Women                 | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)        | 9,500   | 9,500   | 0.0%   | GRI 2-7       |
|                                                  | Men                   | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)        | 4,600   | 4,300   | 7.0%   | GRI 2-7       |
|                                                  | No/other gender entry | Sept. 30th                  | No.                  | 6       | 6       | 0.0%   | GRI 2-7       |

Table 46:
|:-----------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------|:----------------------------|:-------------------------------------------|:--------|:--------|:-------|:----------|
| Sustainability Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)           |                       | Fiscal Year/ September 30th | Unit                                       | FY 2023 | FY 2022 | +/-    | Standards |
| Full-/part-time employees in headcount                     | Full-/part-time n/a   | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)                              | 900     | 1,600   | -43.8% | GRI 2-7   |
| Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements      | Germany               | Sept. 30th                  | % of total employees in Germany            | 78.6%   | 78.3%   | 0.4%   | GRI 2-30  |
| Additional employees covered by collective agreements23    | Germany               | Sept. 30th                  | % of total employees in Germany            | 19.2%   | 19.5%   | -1.5%  | GRI 2-30  |
| Senior managers represented by "Executive staff committee" | Germany               | Sept. 30th                  | % of total employees in Germany            | 2.2%    | 2.2%    | 0.0%   | GRI 2-30  |
| Diversity of employees per category and function24         |                       |                             |                                            |         |         |        |           |
| Employees in all management positions25                    | Total                 | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)                              | 32,900  | 30,900  | 6.5%   | GRI 405-1 |
|                                                            | Women                 | Sept. 30th                  | % of employees in all management positions | 21.6%   | 20.6%   | 4.9%   | GRI 405-1 |
|                                                            | Men                   | Sept. 30th                  | % of employees in all management positions | 78.4%   | 79.4%   | -1.3%  | GRI 405-1 |
|                                                            | No/other gender entry | Sept. 30th                  | % of employees in all management positions | 0.0%    | 0.0%    |        | GRI 405-1 |
| Employees in top management positions26                    | Total                 | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)                              | 500     | 500     | 0.0%   | GRI 405-1 |
|                                                            | Women                 | Sept. 30th                  | % of employees in top management positions | 30.8%   | 27.2%   | 13.2%  | GRI 405-1 |
|                                                            | Men                   | Sept. 30th                  | % of employees in top management positions | 69.2%   | 72.8%   | -4.9%  | GRI 405-1 |
|                                                            | No/other gender entry | Sept. 30th                  | % of employees in top management positions | 0.0%    | 0.0%    |        | GRI 405-1 |
|                                                            | Age group < 30        | Sept. 30th                  | % of employees in top management positions | 0.2%    | 0.2%    | 0.0%   | GRI 405-1 |
|                                                            | Age group 30 - 50     | Sept. 30th                  | % of employees in top management positions | 42.7%   | 46.0%   | -7.2%  | GRI 405-1 |
|                                                            | Age group > 50        | Sept. 30th                  | % of employees in top management positions | 57.1%   | 53.7%   | 6.3%   | GRI 405-1 |

Table 47:
|:----------------------------------------------------|:-------------------------|:----------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------|:--------|:--------|:--------|:----------|
| Sustainability Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)    |                          | Fiscal Year/ September 30th | Unit                                                   | FY 2023 | FY 2022 | +/-     | Standards |
| Employees in middle & junior management positions27 | Total                    | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)                                          | 32,400  | 30,400  | 6.6%    | GRI 405-1 |
|                                                     | Women                    | Sept. 30th                  | % of employees in middle & junior management positions | 21.4%   | 20.5%   | 4.4%    | GRI 405-1 |
|                                                     | Men                      | Sept. 30th                  | % of employees in middle & junior management positions | 78.6%   | 79.5%   | -1.1%   | GRI 405-1 |
|                                                     | No/other gender entry    | Sept. 30th                  | % of employees in middle & junior management positions | 0.0%    | 0.0%    |         | GRI 405-1 |
|                                                     | Age group < 30           | Sept. 30th                  | % of employees in middle & junior management positions | 1.1%    | 1.0%    | 10.0%   | GRI 405-1 |
|                                                     | Age group 30 - 50        | Sept. 30th                  | % of employees in middle & junior management positions | 64.7%   | 64.5%   | 0.3%    | GRI 405-1 |
|                                                     | Age group > 50           | Sept. 30th                  | % of employees in middle & junior management positions | 34.2%   | 34.5%   | -0.9%   | GRI 405-1 |
| Employees in non-management positions               | Total                    | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)                                          | 285,700 | 278,200 | 2.7%    | GRI 405-1 |
|                                                     | Women                    | Sept. 30th                  | % of employees in non-management positions             | 28.2%   | 28.0%   | 0.7%    | GRI 405-1 |
|                                                     | Men                      | Sept. 30th                  | % of employees in non-management positions             | 71.8%   | 72.0%   | -0.3%   | GRI 405-1 |
|                                                     | No/other gender entry    | Sept. 30th                  | % of employees in non-management positions             | 0.0%    | 0.1%    | -100.0% | GRI 405-1 |
|                                                     | Age group < 30           | Sept. 30th                  | % of employees in non-management positions             | 17.2%   | 17.1%   | 0.6%    | GRI 405-1 |
|                                                     | Age group 30 - 50        | Sept. 30th                  | % of employees in non-management positions             | 58.5%   | 58.4%   | 0.2%    | GRI 405-1 |
|                                                     | Age group > 50           | Sept. 30th                  | % of employees in non-management positions             | 24.3%   | 24.5%   | -0.8%   | GRI 405-1 |
| Women in functions                                  | Production               | Sept. 30th                  | % of total employees in function                       | 25.2%   | 25.0%   | 0.8%    | GRI 405-1 |
|                                                     | Sales and marketing      | Sept. 30th                  | % of total employees in function                       | 29.3%   | 28.7%   | 2.1%    | GRI 405-1 |
|                                                     | Research and development | Sept. 30th                  | % of total employees in function                       | 22.7%   | 22.5%   | 0.9%    | GRI 405-1 |
|                                                     | General administration   | Sept. 30th                  | % of total employees in function                       | 48.4%   | 48.2%   | 0.4%    | GRI 405-1 |

Table 48:
|:-------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------|:----------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------|:--------|:--------|:-------|:---------------|
| Sustainability Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) |                           | Fiscal Year/ September 30th | Unit                                                                     | FY 2023 | FY 2022 | +/-    | Standards      |
| Women in STEM-related positions                  | Total                     | Sept. 30th                  | % of total employees in STEM                                             | 19.3%   | 19.3%   | 0.0%   | GRI 405-1      |
|                                                  | In management positions28 | Sept. 30th                  | % of total employees in STEM and management                              | 14.3%   | 13.3%   | 7.5%   | GRI 405-1      |
| Women in revenue-generating functions            | In management positions28 | Sept. 30th                  | % of total employees in revenue-generat- ing functions and in management | 15.6%   | 14.6%   | 6.8%   | GRI 405-1      |
| Hirings                                          |                           |                             |                                                                          |         |         |        |                |
| Hirings                                          | Total                     | Fiscal Year                 | No. (rounded)                                                            | 40,700  | 47,300  | -14.0% | GRI 401-1, WEF |
|                                                  | EMEA                      | Fiscal Year                 | No. (rounded)                                                            | 17,300  | 19,300  | -10.4% | GRI 401-1, WEF |
|                                                  | Americas                  | Fiscal Year                 | No. (rounded)                                                            | 12,000  | 13,800  | -13.0% | GRI 401-1, WEF |
|                                                  | Asia, Australia           | Fiscal Year                 | No. (rounded)                                                            | 11,400  | 14,300  | -20.3% | GRI 401-1, WEF |
|                                                  | Women                     | Fiscal Year                 | No. (rounded)                                                            | 12,000  | 14,100  | -14.9% | GRI 401-1, WEF |
|                                                  | Men                       | Fiscal Year                 | No. (rounded)                                                            | 28,500  | 32,900  | -13.4% | GRI 401-1, WEF |
|                                                  | No/other gender entry     | Fiscal Year                 | No.                                                                      | 26      | 50      | -48.0% | GRI 401-1, WEF |
|                                                  | Gender n/a                | Fiscal Year                 | No.                                                                      | 200     | 228     | -12.3% | GRI 401-1, WEF |
|                                                  | Age group < 30            | Fiscal Year                 | No. (rounded)                                                            | 18,400  | 21,600  | -14.8% | GRI 401-1, WEF |
|                                                  | Age group 30 - 50         | Fiscal Year                 | No. (rounded)                                                            | 19,600  | 22,600  | -13.3% | GRI 401-1, WEF |
|                                                  | Age group > 50            | Fiscal Year                 | No. (rounded)                                                            | 2,500   | 3,000   | -16.7% | GRI 401-1, WEF |
|                                                  | Age n/a                   | Fiscal Year                 | No.                                                                      | 200     | 228     | -12.3% | GRI 401-1, WEF |
| Hiring rate29                                    | Total                     | Fiscal Year                 | % of average number of employees                                         | 12.9%   | 15.4%   | -16.2% | GRI 401-1, WEF |
|                                                  | EMEA                      | Fiscal Year                 | % of average number of employees in region                               | 10.0%   | 11.2%   | -10.7% | GRI 401-1, WEF |
|                                                  | Americas                  | Fiscal Year                 | % of average number of employees in region                               | 18.2%   | 21.9%   | -16.9% | GRI 401-1, WEF |
|                                                  | Asia, Australia           | Fiscal Year                 | % of average number of employees in region                               | 14.9%   | 19.7%   | -24.4% | GRI 401-1, WEF |
|                                                  | Women                     | Fiscal Year                 | % of average number of women                                             | 14.0%   | 17.1%   | -18.1% | GRI 401-1, WEF |
|                                                  | Men                       | Fiscal Year                 | % of average number of men                                               | 12.5%   | 14.7%   | -15.0% | GRI 401-1, WEF |
|                                                  | No/other gender entry     | Fiscal Year                 | % of average number of employees with no/other gender                    | 16.4%   | 89.8%   | -81.7% | GRI 401-1, WEF |
|                                                  | Age group < 30            | Fiscal Year                 | % of average number of employees in age group                            | 37.6%   | 46.7%   | -19.5% | GRI 401-1, WEF |
|                                                  | Age group 30 - 50         | Fiscal Year                 | % of average number of employees in age group                            | 10.6%   | 12.4%   | -14.5% | GRI 401-1, WEF |
|                                                  | Age group > 50            | Fiscal Year                 | % of average number of employees in age group                            | 3.2%    | 3.7%    | -13.5% | GRI 401-1, WEF |

Table 49:
|:-------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------|:----------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------|:--------|:--------|:-------|:---------------|
| Sustainability Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) |                             | Fiscal Year/ September 30th | Unit                                                        | FY 2023 | FY 2022 | +/-    | Standards      |
| Exits                                            |                             |                             |                                                             |         |         |        |                |
| Exits30                                          | Total                       | Fiscal Year                 | No. (rounded)                                               | 30,400  | 35,800  | -15.1% | GRI 401-1, WEF |
|                                                  | EMEA                        | Fiscal Year                 | No. (rounded)                                               | 13,000  | 15,000  | -13.3% | GRI 401-1, WEF |
|                                                  | Americas                    | Fiscal Year                 | No. (rounded)                                               | 9,200   | 11,700  | -21.4% | GRI 401-1, WEF |
|                                                  | Asia, Australia             | Fiscal Year                 | No. (rounded)                                               | 8,200   | 9,200   | -10.9% | GRI 401-1, WEF |
|                                                  | Women                       | Fiscal Year                 | No. (rounded)                                               | 8,500   | 9,500   | -10.5% | GRI 401-1, WEF |
|                                                  | Men                         | Fiscal Year                 | No. (rounded)                                               | 21,800  | 26,100  | -16.5% | GRI 401-1, WEF |
|                                                  | No/other gender entry       | Fiscal Year                 | No.                                                         | 28      | 10      | 180.0% | GRI 401-1, WEF |
|                                                  | Gender n/a                  | Fiscal Year                 | No.                                                         | 118     | 203     | -41.9% | GRI 401-1, WEF |
|                                                  | Age group < 30              | Fiscal Year                 | No. (rounded)                                               | 8,000   | 9,400   | -14.9% | GRI 401-1, WEF |
|                                                  | Age group 30 - 50           | Fiscal Year                 | No. (rounded)                                               | 14,900  | 18,200  | -18.1% | GRI 401-1, WEF |
|                                                  | Age group > 50              | Fiscal Year                 | No. (rounded)                                               | 7,400   | 8,000   | -7.5%  | GRI 401-1, WEF |
|                                                  | Age n/a                     | Fiscal Year                 | No.                                                         | 118     | 203     | -41.9% | GRI 401-1, WEF |
| Employee turnover rate30                         | Total                       | Fiscal Year                 | % of average number of employees                            | 9.6%    | 11.6%   | -17.2% | GRI 401-1      |
|                                                  | Voluntary turnover rate31   | Fiscal Year                 | % of average number of employees                            | 5.3%    | 6.6%    | -19.7% | GRI 401-1      |
|                                                  | Involuntary turnover rate32 | Fiscal Year                 | % of average number of employees                            | 4.3%    | 5.0%    | -14.0% | GRI 401-1      |
|                                                  | EMEA                        | Fiscal Year                 | % of average number of employees in region                  | 7.5%    | 8.7%    | -13.8% | GRI 401-1      |
|                                                  | Americas                    | Fiscal Year                 | % of average number of employees in region                  | 14.0%   | 18.6%   | -24.7% | GRI 401-1      |
|                                                  | Asia, Australia             | Fiscal Year                 | % of average number of employees in region                  | 10.7%   | 12.6%   | -15.1% | GRI 401-1      |
|                                                  | Women                       | Fiscal Year                 | % of average number of women                                | 9.9%    | 11.5%   | -13.9% | GRI 401-1      |
|                                                  | Men                         | Fiscal Year                 | % of average number of men                                  | 9.5%    | 11.6%   | -18.1% | GRI 401-1      |
|                                                  | No/other gender entry       | Fiscal Year                 | % of average number of employees with no/other gender entry | 17.7%   | 18.0%   | -1.7%  | GRI 401-1      |
|                                                  | Age group < 30              | Fiscal Year                 | % of average number of employees in age group               | 16.4%   | 20.4%   | -19.6% | GRI 401-1      |
|                                                  | Age group 30 - 50           | Fiscal Year                 | % of average number of employees in age group               | 8.0%    | 10.0%   | -20.0% | GRI 401-1      |
|                                                  | Age group > 50              | Fiscal Year                 | % of average number of employees in age group               | 9.2%    | 10.1%   | -8.9%  | GRI 401-1      |
| Employee share programs33                        |                             |                             |                                                             |         |         |        |                |
| Employees participating in the                   | Total (w/o SHS)             | Fiscal Year                 | No. (rounded)                                               | 102,000 | 103,000 | -1.0%  |                |
| Siemens employee share plans                     | Total (w/o SHS)             | Fiscal Year                 | % of total employees                                        | 43.5%   | 44.5%   | -2.2%  |                |

Table 50:
|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:-------------------------------------|:----------------------------|:---------------------|:--------|:--------|:-------|:---------------|
| Sustainability Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)                                                               |                                      | Fiscal Year/ September 30th | Unit                 | FY 2023 | FY 2022 | +/-    | Standards      |
| Professional education and lifelong learning                                                                   |                                      |                             |                      |         |         |        |                |
| Apprentices and dual students                                                                                  | Total                                | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)        | 5,800   | 5,500   | 5.5%   | GRI 2-7        |
|                                                                                                                | Germany                              | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)        | 3,600   | 3,900   | -7.7%  | GRI 2-7        |
| Average number of interns/(doctoral) students with an educational/ learning target (e.g. mandatory internship) | Total                                | Sept. 30th                  | No. (rounded)        | 1,100   | 1,000   | 10.0%  | GRI 2-7        |
| Spending on employee education and training                                                                    | Total                                | Fiscal Year                 | Million €            | 416.3   | 374.6   | 11.1%  | GRI 404-2, WEF |
| Spending on employee training                                                                                  | Total                                | Fiscal Year                 | Million €            | 237.0   | 205.4   | 15.4%  | GRI 404-2, WEF |
| Spending on employee training per employee                                                                     | Total                                | Fiscal Year                 | €                    | 753     | 667     | 12.9%  | GRI 404-2, WEF |
| Spending on employee training per full time employee                                                           | Total                                | Fiscal Year                 | €                    | 763     | 676     | 12.8%  | GRI 404-2, WEF |
| Average training hours per employee                                                                            | Total                                | Fiscal Year                 | No.                  | 30      | 26      | 12.1%  | GRI 404-1, WEF |
|                                                                                                                | Digital learning                     | Fiscal Year                 | No.                  | 23      | 21      | 9.4%   | GRI 404-1, WEF |
|                                                                                                                | On-site training                     | Fiscal Year                 | No.                  | 6       | 5       | 23.1%  | GRI 404-1, WEF |
|                                                                                                                | Women                                | Fiscal Year                 | No.                  | 28      | 26      | 9.0%   | GRI 404-1, WEF |
|                                                                                                                | Men                                  | Fiscal Year                 | No.                  | 30      | 27      | 13.1%  | GRI 404-1, WEF |
|                                                                                                                | no/other gender                      | Fiscal Year                 | No.                  | 18      | 39      | -54.2% | GRI 404-1, WEF |
|                                                                                                                | Blue-collar workers                  | Fiscal Year                 | No.                  | 22      | 20      | 12.0%  | GRI 404-1, WEF |
|                                                                                                                | White-collar workers                 | Fiscal Year                 | No.                  | 31      | 28      | 12.6%  | GRI 404-1, WEF |
| Average training hours per employee category                                                                   | Top management positions             | Fiscal Year                 | No.                  | 34      | 28      | 21.5%  | GRI 404-1, WEF |
|                                                                                                                | Middle/junior man- agement positions | Fiscal Year                 | No.                  | 36      | 28      | 26.6%  | GRI 404-1, WEF |
|                                                                                                                | Non-management positions             | Fiscal Year                 | No.                  | 29      | 26      | 10.7%  | GRI 404-1, WEF |
|                                                                                                                | Function: Production                 | Fiscal Year                 | No.                  | 30      | 27      | 12.6%  | GRI 404-1, WEF |
|                                                                                                                | Function: Sales and marketing        | Fiscal Year                 | No.                  | 27      | 24      | 10.7%  | GRI 404-1, WEF |
|                                                                                                                | Function: Research and development   | Fiscal Year                 | No.                  | 31      | 27      | 16.7%  | GRI 404-1, WEF |
|                                                                                                                | Function: General administration     | Fiscal Year                 | No.                  | 27      | 24      | 12.8%  | GRI 404-1, WEF |
| Modules in Siemens digital global learning platform My Learning World                                          | Total (w/o SHS)                      | Fiscal Year                 | No. (rounded)        | 136,000 | 116,600 | -16.6% | GRI 404-2, WEF |
| Share of employees with access to digital learning offerings                                                   | Total                                | Fiscal Year                 | % of total employees | 99.6%   | 90%     | 10.7%  | GRI 404-2, WEF |
| Participation rate in learning offerings                                                                       | Total                                | Fiscal Year                 | % of total employees | 100%    | 100%    | 0.0%   | GRI 404-2, WEF |
| Development programs                                                                                           |                                      |                             |                      |         |         |        |                |
| Siemens Core Learning Paths (CLP)                                                                              | Total                                | Fiscal Year                 | No.                  | 29      | 29      | 0.0%   | GRI 404-2, WEF |
| Siemens Potential Development Programs (PDP)                                                                   | Total (w/o SHS)                      | Fiscal Year                 | No.                  | 38      | 36      | 5.6%   | GRI 404-2, WEF |
| Xcelerate Your Potential @ Siemens (XPS)                                                                       | Total community                      | Sept. 30th                  | No.                  | 23      | 22      | 4.5%   | GRI 404-2, WEF |
| :selected:                                                                                                     |                                      |                             |                      |         |         |        |                |
|                                                                                                                | Active participants (w/o SHS)        | Sept. 30th                  | No.                  | 3       | 2       | 50.0%  | GRI 404-2, WEF |
| Siemens Finance Excellence Program (FEP)                                                                       | Total community                      | Sept. 30th                  | No.                  | 69      | 68      | 1.5%   | GRI 404-2, WEF |
|                                                                                                                | Active participants                  | Sept. 30th                  | No.                  | 8       | 9       | -11.1% | GRI 404-2, WEF |

Table 51:
|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------|:--------------------|:----------------------------|:----------------------------|:--------|:--------|:--------|:----------------|
| Sustainability Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)                       |                     | Fiscal Year/ September 30th | Unit                        | FY 2023 | FY 2022 | +/-     | Standards       |
| Siemens Graduate Program (SGP)                                         | Total community     | Sept. 30th                  | No.                         | 954     | 913     | 4.5%    | GRI 404-2, WEF  |
|                                                                        | Active participants | Sept. 30th                  | No.                         | 132     | 99      | 33.3%   | GRI 404-2, WEF  |
| Occupational health & safety34                                         |                     |                             |                             |         |         |         |                 |
| Fatalities - work related                                              | Total               | Fiscal Year                 | No.                         | 4       | 2       | 100.0%  | GRI 403-9, WEF  |
|                                                                        | Temporary workers   | Fiscal Year                 | No.                         | 0       | 0       |         | GRI 403-9, WEF  |
|                                                                        | Employees           | Fiscal Year                 | No.                         | 0       | 1       | -100.0% | GRI 403-9, WEF  |
|                                                                        | Contractors         | Fiscal Year                 | No.                         | 4       | 1       | 300.0%  | GRI 403-9, WEF  |
|                                                                        | Total36             | Fiscal Year                 | No.                         | 0.000   | 0.001   | -100.0% | GRI 403-9, WEF  |
| Fatality Rate - work related35                                         | Temporary workers   | Fiscal Year                 | No.                         | 0.000   | 0.000   |         | GRI 403-9, WEF  |
|                                                                        | Employees           | Fiscal Year                 | No.                         | 0.000   | 0.0003  | -100.0% | GRI 403-9, WEF  |
| High-consequence work-related injuries (excluding fatalities)          | Total               | Fiscal Year                 | No.                         | 50      | 68      | -26.5%  | GRI 403-9, WEF  |
|                                                                        | Temporary workers   | Fiscal Year                 | No.                         | 3       | 1       | 200.0%  | GRI 403-9, WEF  |
|                                                                        | Employees           | Fiscal Year                 | No.                         | 47      | 67      | -29.9%  | GRI 403-9, WEF  |
|                                                                        | Total               | Fiscal Year                 | No.                         | 0.015   | 0.021   | -28.5%  | GRI 403-9, WEF  |
| High-consequence injury rate37                                         | Temporary workers   | Fiscal Year                 | No.                         | 0.009   | 0.003   | 178.4%  | GRI 403-9, WEF  |
|                                                                        | Employees           | Fiscal Year                 | No.                         | 0.015   | 0.022   | -31.4%  | GRI 403-9, WEF  |
|                                                                        | Total               | Fiscal Year                 | No.                         | 1,466   | 1,518   | -3.4%   | GRI 403-9, WEF  |
| Recordable injuries                                                    | Temporary workers   | Fiscal Year                 | No.                         | 199     | 210     | -5.2%   | GRI 403-9, WEF  |
|                                                                        | Employees           | Fiscal Year                 | No.                         | 1,267   | 1,308   | -3.1%   | GRI 403-9, WEF  |
|                                                                        | Total               | Fiscal Year                 | No.                         | 0.43    | 0.46    | -6.1%   | GRI 403-9, WEF  |
| Total recordable injury rate 38                                        | Temporary workers   | Fiscal Year                 | No.                         | 0.63    | 0.71    | -12.1%  | GRI 403-9, WEF  |
|                                                                        | Employees           | Fiscal Year                 | No.                         | 0.41    | 0.44    | -5.3%   | GRI 403-9, WEF  |
|                                                                        | Total               | Fiscal Year                 | No.                         | 805     | 853     | -5.6%   | GRI 403-9, WEF  |
| Lost time injuries (LTI)                                               | Temporary workers   | Fiscal Year                 | No.                         | 96      | 112     | -14.3%  | GRI 403-9, WEF  |
|                                                                        | Employees           | Fiscal Year                 | No.                         | 709     | 741     | -4.3%   | GRI 403-9, WEF  |
| Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR)39                              | Total               | Fiscal Year                 | No.                         | 0.24    | 0.26    | -8.2%   | GRI 403-9, WEF  |
|                                                                        | Temporary workers   | Fiscal Year                 | No.                         | 0.30    | 0.38    | -20.5%  | GRI 403-9, WEF  |
|                                                                        | Employees           | Fiscal Year                 | No.                         | 0.23    | 0.25    | -6.5%   | GRI 403-9, WEF  |
| Number of hours worked                                                 | Employees           | Fiscal Year                 | No. (in thousand)           | 614,731 | 600,758 | 2.3%    | GRI 403-9       |
| Occupational Illness cases                                             | Selected countries  | Fiscal Year                 | No.                         | 62      | 8840    | -29.5%  | GRI 403-10, WEF |
| Fatalities due to occupational Illness                                 | Selected countries  | Fiscal Year                 | No.                         | 6       | 11 40   | -45.5%  | GRI 403-10      |
| Rate of employees covered with OHS MS that has been externally audited | Total               | Sept. 30th                  | % of total number employees | 57%     | 57%41   | 0.0%    | GRI 403-8       |
| Rate employees covered with OHS MS that has been internally audited    | Total (w/o SHS)     | Sept. 30th                  | % of total number employees | 99.9%   | n.a.    |         | GRI 403-8       |
| Rate of access to Medical Care42                                       | Total (w/o SHS)     | Sept. 30th                  | % of total number employees | 99%     | 89%     | 11.8%   | GRI 403-6       |
| Rate of access to Health Education42                                   | Total (w/o SHS)     | Sept. 30th                  | % of total number employees | 94%     | 85%     | 11.0%   |                 |

Table 52:
|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:----------------|:----------------------------|:---------------------------------|:--------|:--------|:--------|:---------------|
| Sustainability Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)                                      |                 | Fiscal Year/ September 30th | Unit                             | FY 2023 | FY 2022 | +/-     | Standards      |
| Corporate Citizenship                                                                 |                 |                             |                                  |         |         |         |                |
| Donations                                                                             | Total           | Fiscal Year                 | Million €                        | 29.2    | 32.1    | -9.0%   | GRI 201-1, WEF |
|                                                                                       | Total           | Fiscal Year                 | % of Net Income                  | 0.3%    | 0.7%    | -53.1%  | GRI 201-1, WEF |
| Sponsoring Social programs (e.g. Arts and education)                                  | Total           | Fiscal Year                 | Million €                        | 14.0    | 13.5    | 3.5%    | GRI 201-1, WEF |
| Community investment total                                                            | Total           | Fiscal Year                 | Million €                        | 43.2    | 45.6    | -5.3%   | GRI 201-1, WEF |
|                                                                                       | Total           | Fiscal Year                 | % of Net Income                  | 0.5%    | 1.0%    | -51.2%  | GRI 201-1, WEF |
| Volunteering hours                                                                    | Total (w/o SHS) | Fiscal Year                 | No. (rounded)                    | 36,500  | 32,650  | 11.8%   | GRI 201-1, WEF |
| DEGREE SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK - KPI OVERVIEW (FIGURES WITHOUT SIEMENS HEALTHINEERS) |                 |                             |                                  |         |         |         |                |
| Decarbonization                                                                       |                 |                             |                                  |         |         |         |                |
| Scope 1+2: Emission reduction to base year                                            | Total (w/o SHS) | Fiscal Year                 | % to base year (2019)            | -50%    | -46%    | 9.5%    |                |
| Supply Chain: Emission reduction to base year                                         | Total (w/o SHS) | Fiscal Year                 | % to base year (2020)43          | -0.9%   | 2.5%    | -134.0% |                |
| Ethics                                                                                |                 |                             |                                  |         |         |         |                |
| Quota of participants of Business Conduct Guideline training (since FY 23)            | Total (w/o SHS) | up to Sept. 30th            | % of total number of employees   | 69.0%   | 99.9%44 |         |                |
| Governance                                                                            |                 |                             |                                  |         |         |         |                |
|                                                                                       |                 |                             |                                  |         |         |         |                |
| Resource efficiency                                                                   |                 |                             |                                  |         |         |         |                |
| Quota of product families with Robust Eco Design                                      | Total (w/o SHS) | Fiscal Year                 | % of relevant revenue45          | 51%     | 35%     | 43.0%   |                |
| Purchase Quota - Secondary material for metals                                        | Total (w/o SHS) | Fiscal Year                 | % of relevant purchase volume    | 35%     | 34%     | 3.0%    |                |
| Purchase Quota - Secondary material for resins                                        | Total (w/o SHS) | Fiscal Year                 | % of relevant purchase volume    | < 1%    | < 1%    |         |                |
| Quota of waste-to-landfill reduction to base year (w/o construction waste)            | Total (w/o SHS) | Fiscal Year                 | % to base year (2021)            | -15%    | -12%    | 20.2%   |                |
| Equity                                                                                |                 |                             |                                  |         |         |         |                |
| Female share in top management                                                        | Total (w/o SHS) | Sept. 30th                  | % of employees in top management | 31.1%   | 27.7%   | 12.3%   |                |
| Share of employees with access to Siemens employee share plans46                      | Total (w/o SHS) | Fiscal Year                 | % of total number of employees   | 99.9%   | 98.6%   | 1.3%    |                |
| Employability                                                                         |                 |                             |                                  |         |         |         |                |
| Digital learning hours per employee                                                   | Total (w/o SHS) | Fiscal Year                 | No.                              | 23      | 21      | 9.5%    |                |
| Level of access to Employee Assistance Program42                                      | Total (w/o SHS) | Sept. 30th                  | % of total number of employees   | 96%     | 87%     | 10.3%   |                |
| Improvement in global LTIFR47 to base year                                            | Total (w/o SHS) | Fiscal Year                 | % to base year (2020)            | -26%    | -19%    | 36.8%   |                |

Table 53:
|:----------------------------------------------------|:-----------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Sustainability topics                               | SDGs                         | DEGREE                                                        | GRI Standard                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| Climate action1                                     | 7 |9 11 12 13                | D ECARBONIZATION                                              | GRI Standard 305 Emissions                                                                                                                                                                         |
|                                                     | :selected:                   |                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Innovation and business model                       | 6 7 8 9 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 | D ECARBONIZATION :unselected: R ESOURCE EFFICIENCY GOVERNANCE | GRI Standard 201 Economic Performance                                                                                                                                                              |
| Cybersecurity and data management                   | 5 8 10 16 17                 | E THICS                                                       |                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
|                                                     |                              | :selected:                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Social and ecological standards in the supply chain | 8 12 17                      | GOVERNANCE                                                    | GRI Standard 414 Supplier Social Assessment GRI Standard 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment                                                                                                     |
| Corporate governance and sustainability leadership  | 8 12 16 17                   | G OVERNANCE                                                   | GRI Standard 413 Local communities                                                                                                                                                                 |
|                                                     | :selected:                   |                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Partner management and collaboration                | 7 8 9 11 12 13 16 17         | G OVERNANCE :unselected: D ECARBONIZATION                     | GRI Standard 203 Indirect Economic Impacts                                                                                                                                                         |
|                                                     | :selected:                   |                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| ESG risk management                                 | 5 8 10 12 16 17              | :unselected: GOVERNANCE E THICS                               | GRI Standard 201 Economic Performance                                                                                                                                                              |
|                                                     |                              | :selected:                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Compliance management                               | 5 8 10 12 16 17              | GOVERNANCE E THICS                                            | GRI 2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations GRI Standard 205 Anti-Corruption GRI Standard 206 Anti-Competitive Behavior GRI Standard 408 Child Labor GRI Standard 409 Forced or Compulsory Labor |
|                                                     |                              | :selected:                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                    |

Table 54:
|:------------------------------------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------|:----------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Sustainability topics                                             | SDGs                               | DEGREE                | GRI Standard                                                                                                                                |
| Sustainable product design and lifecycle management1              | 6 7 9 11 12 13 14 15               | R ESOURCE EFFICIENCY  |                                                                                                                                             |
|                                                                   | :selected: :selected: :selected:   |                       |                                                                                                                                             |
| Waste and hazardous substance management                          | 3 6 12 141                         | R ESOURCE EFFICIENCY  | GRI Standard 306 Waste (2020)                                                                                                               |
| Sustainable handling of natural resources and material efficiency | 6 7 9 11 12 13 14 15               | RESOURCE EFFICIENCY   | GRI Standard 301 Materials GRI Standard 302 Energy GRI Standard 303 Water and Effluents (2018) GRI Standard 306 Waste (2020)                |
|                                                                   | :selected: :selected: :unselected: |                       |                                                                                                                                             |
| Diversity, equity, and inclusion                                  | 3 4 5 8 10 11                      | E QUITY               | GRI Standard 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI Standard 406 Non-Discrimination                                                        |
| Future of work                                                    | 3 4 5 8 10 11                      | E QUITY EMPLOYABILITY | GRI Standard 401 Employment GRI Standard 403 Occupational Health and Safety (2018) GRI Standard 404 Training and Education GRI Standard 405 |
|                                                                   |                                    |                       | Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI Standard 406 Non Discrimination                                                                         |
| Employee development                                              | 4 8                                | E QUITY EMPLOYABILITY | GRI Standard 404 Training and Education                                                                                                     |
| Employee health and safety                                        | 3 4 8 10                           | EMPLOYABILITY         | GRI Standard 403 Occupational Health and Safety (2018)                                                                                      |

Table 55:
|:---------------------|:--------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------|
| Pillars              | Theme                     | Core metrics                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Reference                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Omission |
| Principles of Gover- | Governing                 | Setting purpose The company's stated purpose, as the expression of the means by                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Siemens at a glance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |          |
| nance                |                           | which a business proposes solutions to economic, environmental and social issues. Corporate purpose should create value for all stakeholders, including shareholders.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Sustainability Report 2023 p. 7 ff                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |          |
|                      | purpose                   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |          |
|                      | Quality of governing body | Governance body composition Composition of the highest governance body and its committees by:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Annual Financial Report                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |          |
|                      |                           | competencies relating to economic, environmental and social topics; executive or non-executive; independence; tenure on the governance body; number of each individual's other significant positions and commitments, and the nature of the commitments; gender; membership of under-represented social groups; stakeholder representation.                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Annual Financial Report 2023 Annual Financial Statement 3. Notes: 31 Members of the Managing Board and Supervisory Board p. 131 f :unselected: WWW.SIEMENS.COM/ GLOBAL/EN/COMPANY/ABOUT/ LEADERSHIP/MANAGEMENT.HTML :unselected: WWW.SIEMENS.COM/ GLOBAL/EN/COMPANY/ABOUT/ LEADERSHIP/SUPERVISORYBOARD/ COMMITTEES.HTML |          |
|                      | Stakeholder engagement    | Material issues impacting stakeholders A list of the topics that are material to key stakeholders and the company, how the topics were identified and how the stakeholders were engaged.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Sustainability Report 2023 Materiality assessment p. 21 ff                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |          |
|                      | Ethical                   | Anti-corruption 1. Total percentage of governance body members, employees and business partners who have received training on the organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures, broken down by region.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Sustainability Report 2023 Compliance and Ethics p. 32 ff Our sustainability indicators p. 106 ff                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |          |
|                      | behaviour                 |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |          |
|                      |                           | a) Total number and nature of incidents of corruption confirmed during the current year, but related to previous years; and b) Total number and nature of incidents of corruption confirmed during the current year, related to this year. 2. Discussion of initiatives and stakeholder engagement to improve the broader operating environment and culture, in order to combat corruption.                                                                                                                                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |          |
|                      |                           | Protected ethics advice and reporting mechanisms A description of internal and external mechanisms for: 1. Seeking advice about ethical and lawful behaviour and organizational integrity; 2. Reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behaviour and lack of organizational integrity.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Sustainability Report 2023 Compliance and Ethics p. 32 ff Our sustainability indicators p. 106 ff                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |          |
|                      | Risk and                  | Integrating risk and opportunity into business process Company risk factor and opportunity disclosures that clearly identify the principal material risks and opportunities facing the company specifically (as opposed to generic sector risks), the company appetite in respect of these risks, how these risks and opportunities have moved over time and the response to those changes. These opportunities and risks should integrate material economic, environmental and social issues, including climate change and data stewardship. | Annual Financial Report 2023 Combined Management Report 8. Report on expected develop- ments and associated material opportunities and risks p. 23 ff                                                                                                                                                                   |          |
|                      | opportunity oversight     |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |          |

Table 56:
|:--------|:------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------|
| Pillars | Theme                   | Core metrics                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Reference                                                                                     | Omission |
| Planet  | Climate                 | Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Sustainability Report 2023                                                                    |          |
|         | change                  | For all relevant greenhouse gases (e.g. carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, F-gases etc.), report in metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e) GHG Protocol Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. Estimate and report material upstream and downstream (GHG Protocol Scope 3) emissions where appropriate                                                     | Climate action p. 58 ff Conserving resources p. 65 ff Our sustainability indicators p. 106 ff |          |
|         |                         | TCFD implementation Fully implement the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). If necessary, disclose                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Financial Disclosures                                                                         |          |
|         |                         | a timeline of at most three years for full implementation. Disclose whether you have set, or have committed to set, GHG emissions targets that are in line with the goals of the Paris Agreement - to limit global warming to well below 2℃ above preindustrial levels and pursue efforts to limit warming to 1.5℃ - and to achieve Net-Zero emissions before 2050. | Sustainability Report 2023 Task Force on Climate-Related (TCFD) p. 136 ff                     |          |
|         | Nature loss             | Land use and ecological sensitivity Report the number and area (in hectares) of sites owned, leased or managed in or adjacent to protected areas and/or key biodiversity                                                                                                                                                                                            | Our sustainability indicators                                                                 |          |
|         |                         | areas (KBA)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Sustainability Report 2023 Conserving resources p. 65 ff p. 110 ff                            |          |
|         | Freshwater availability | Water consumption and withdrawal in water stressed areas Report for operations where material: megalitres of water with- drawn, megalitres of water consumed and the percentage of each                                                                                                                                                                             | p. 106 ff                                                                                     |          |
|         |                         | in regions with high or extremely high baseline water stress, according to WRI Aqueduct water risk atlas tool. Estimate and report the same information for the full value chain (upstream and downstream) where appropriate.                                                                                                                                       | Sustainability Report 2023 Conserving resources p. 74 ff Our sustainability indicators        |          |

Table 57:
|:--------|:----------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Pillars | Theme                 | Core metrics                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Reference                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Omission                                                                                                                                                               |
| People  | Dignity and equality  | Diversity and inclusion (%) Percentage of employees per employee category, by age group, gender and other indicators of diversity (e.g. ethnicity).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Sustainability Report 2023 Diversity, Equity & Inclusion p. 89 ff Our sustainability indicators p. 106 ff                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                                        |
|         |                       | Pay equality (%) Ratio of the basic salary and remuneration for each employee category by significant locations of operation for priority areas of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | p. 82 ff                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Siemens pursues the principle of performance- related compen- sation - regardless of gender. Remuneration data is regarded confidential and is therefore not reported. |
|         |                       | equality: women to men, minor to major ethnic groups, and other                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Our sustainability indicators                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                        |
|         |                       | relevant equality areas.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Sustainability Report 2023 Working at Siemens p. 106 ff                                                                                                                                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                        |
|         |                       | Wage level (%) Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage. Ratio of the annual total compensation of the CEO to the median of the annual total compensation of all its employees, except the CEO.                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Siemens pursues the principle of performance- related compen- sation - regardless of gender. Remuneration data is regarded confidential and is therefore not reported. |
|         |                       | Risk for incidents of child, forced or compulsory labour An explanation of the operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of child labour, forced or compulsory labour. Such risks could emerge in relation to: a) type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and type of supplier; and b) countries or geographic areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk.                                     | Sustainability Report 2023 Human Rights p. 40 ff Sustainable supply chain practice p. 44 ff Business Conduct Guidelines: :unselected: HTTPS://ASSETS.NEW. SIEMENS.COM/SIEMENS/ASSETS/ API/UUID: 5C242542-E991-4B97- AF63-090AD509BE74/SAG- BCG-EN.PDF |                                                                                                                                                                        |
|         | Health and well-being | Health and safety (%) The number and rate of fatalities as a result of work-related injury; high-consequence work-related injuries (excluding fatalities); recordable work-related injuries; main types of work-related injury; and the number of hours worked. An explanation of how the organization facilitates workers' access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services, and the scope of access provided for employees and workers. | Sustainability Report 2023 Occupational health and safety management p. 97 ff Our sustainability indicators p. 106 ff                                                                                                                                 |                                                                                                                                                                        |
|         | Skills for the future | Training provided (#, $) Average hours of training per person that the organization's employees have undertaken during the reporting period, by gender                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | long learning p. 93 ff                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |                                                                                                                                                                        |
|         |                       | and employee category (total number of hours of training provided to employees divided by the number of employees). Average training and development expenditure per full time employee (total cost of training provided to employees divided by the number of employees).                                                                                                                                                                          | Sustainability Report 2023 Professional education and life- Our sustainability indicators p. 106 ff.                                                                                                                                                  |                                                                                                                                                                        |

Table 58:
|:-----------|:-------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------|
| Pillars    | Theme                                      | Core metrics                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Reference                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Omission |
| Prosperity | Employment and wealth generation           | Absolute number and rate of employment                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Sustainability Report 2023 Professional education and lifelong learning p. 93 ff Our sustainability indicators p. 106 ff                                                                                        |          |
|            |                                            | 1. Total number and rate of new employee hires during the reporting period, by age group, gender, other indicators of diversity and region. 2. Total number and rate of employee turnover during the reporting period, by age group, gender, other indicators of diversity and region.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |          |
|            |                                            | Economic contribution 1. Direct economic value generated and distributed (EVG&D), on an accruals basis, covering the basic components for the organization's global operations, ideally split out by: - Revenues - Operating costs - Employee wages and benefits - Payments to providers of capital - Payments to government - Community investment 2. Financial assistance received from the government: total mon- etary value of financial assistance received by the organization from any government during the reporting period. | Siemens Annual Financial Report 2023 Consolidated Financial Statements p. 46 ff                                                                                                                                 |          |
|            |                                            | :unselected: :unselected: :unselected: :unselected: :unselected: :unselected: :selected:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |          |
|            |                                            | Financial investment contribution                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Annual Financial Report 2023                                                                                                                                                                                    |          |
|            |                                            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Consolidated Financial State- ments 6. Note 19 Equity p. 70 Annual Financial Statements 3. Note 15 Shareholder's Equity p. 124 f                                                                                |          |
|            |                                            | 1. Total capital expenditures (CapEx) minus depreciation, supported                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |          |
|            |                                            | by narrative to describe the company's investment strategy. 2. Share buybacks plus dividend payments, supported by narrative to describe the company's strategy for returns of capital to shareholders.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |          |
|            | Innovation of better products and services | Total R&D expenses Total costs related to research and development                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Sustainability Report 2023 Company profile p. 10 ff                                                                                                                                                             |          |
|            | Community and social vitality              | Total tax paid The total global tax borne by the company, including corporate income taxes, property taxes, non-creditable VAT and other sales taxes, employer-paid payroll taxes, and other taxes that constitute                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | accounting policies and critical                                                                                                                                                                                |          |
|            |                                            | costs to the company, by category of taxes.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Annual Financial Report 2023 Consolidated Financial State- ments 6. Note 2 Material accounting estimates p. 51 ff Note 7 Income Taxes p. 58 f Annual Financial Statements 3. Note 13 Deferred tax assets p. 123 |          |

Table 59:
|:---------------------------|:---------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Topic                      | Codified metric code | Disclosure                                                             | Reference                                                                                                                                                 | Omission                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| Energy Management          | RT-EE-130a.1         | (1) Total energy consumed                                              | Sustainability Report 2023:                                                                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
|                            | RT-EE-130a.1         | (2) Percentage grid electricity                                        | Environment - Conserving resources, p. 65 ff (Energy used reduced),                                                                                       |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
|                            | RT-EE-130a.1         | (3) Percentage renewable                                               | Our sustainability indicators, p. 106 ff                                                                                                                  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| Hazardous Waste Management | RT-EE-150a.1         | Amount of hazardous waste generated, percentage recycled               | Sustainability Report 2023: Environment - Conserving resources, p. 65 ff, (Efficient Waste management), Our sustainability indictors, p. 106 ff           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
|                            | RT-EE-150a.2         | Number and aggregate quantity of reportable spills, quantity recovered | Sustainability Report 2023: Environment - Conserving resources, p. 65 ff, (Incident relevant to the environment), Our sustainability indictors, p. 106 ff |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| Product Safety             | RT-EE-250a.1         | Number of recalls issued, total units recalled                         | not applicable                                                                                                                                            | Siemens has established a comprehen- sive, company-wide product safety system to ensure that our products comply with applicable legal safety requirements and meet the latest tech- nical safety standards so that they do not pose a threat to the life or health of users or other third parties. Under this system, all company units are required to ensure that their products comply with the state of the art in safety matters. The units are also obliged to conduct systematic product monitoring and take the necessary corrective actions to remedy potential product safety deficiencies. |
|                            | RT-EE-250a.2         | Total amount of monetary losses                                        | Annual Financial Report 2023                                                                                                                              |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
|                            |                      | as a result of legal proceedings associated with product safety        | Consolidated Financial Statements 6. Notes 22 Legal proceedings, p. 71 f                                                                                  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

Table 60:
|:-----------------------------|:---------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------|
| Topic                        | Codified metric code | Disclosure                                                                                                            | Reference                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Omission |
| Product Lifecycle Management | RT-EE-410a.1         | Percentage of products by revenue that contain IEC 62474 declarable substances                                        | Sustainability Report 2023: Environment - Product stewardship p. 71 ff Our sustainability indicators, p. 106 ff                                                                                                                |          |
|                              | RT-EE-410a.2         | Percentage of eligible products by revenue that meet ENERGY STAR criteria                                             | not applicable                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |          |
|                              | RT-EE-410a.3         | Revenue from renewable energy-                                                                                        | Sustainability Report 2023:                                                                                                                                                                                                    |          |
|                              |                      | related and energy efficiency- related products                                                                       | Environment - Climate action, p. 58 ff, EU Taxonomy, p. 76 ff Our sustainability indicators, p. 106 ff                                                                                                                         |          |
| Materials Sourcing           | RT-EE-440a. 1        | Description of the management of risks associated with the use of critical materials                                  | Sustainability Report 2023: Environment - Product stewardship, p. 71 ff (Risk-conscious handling of declarable substances), Sustainable supply chain practices, p. 44 ff (Responsibility for the world- wide supplier network) |          |
| Business Ethics              | RT-EE-510a.1         | Description of policies and practices for prevention of: (1) corruption and bribery and (2) anti-competitive behavior | Sustainability Report 2023: Compliance and ethics, p. 32 ff                                                                                                                                                                    |          |
|                              |                      | :unselected: :selected:                                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |          |
|                              | RT-EE-510a.2         | Total amount of monetary losses                                                                                       | Annual Financial Report 2023:                                                                                                                                                                                                  |          |
|                              |                      | as a result of legal proceedings associated with incidents relating                                                   | Notes 22 Legal proceedings, p. 71 f                                                                                                                                                                                            |          |
|                              |                      | to bribery or corruption                                                                                              | Consolidated Financial Statements 6. Sustainability Report 2023: Compliance and ethics, p. 32 ff                                                                                                                               |          |
|                              | RT-EE-510a.3         | Total amount of monetary losses                                                                                       | Annual Financial Report 2023:                                                                                                                                                                                                  |          |
|                              |                      | as a result of legal proceedings associated with anti-competitive behavior regulations                                | Consolidated Financial Statements 6. Notes 22 Legal proceedings, p. 71 f Sustainability Report 2023: Compliance and ethics, p. 32 ff                                                                                           |          |
| Activity Metric              | RT-EE-000.A          | Number of units produced by product category                                                                          | not applicable                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |          |
|                              | RT-EE-000.B          | Number of employees                                                                                                   | Sustainability Report 2023 Working at Siemens p. 82 ff Our sustainability indicators, p. 106 ff                                                                                                                                |          |

Table 61:
|:------------------------|:------------------------|
| Keller                  | Johne                   |
| Wirtschaftsprüfer       | Wirtschaftsprüferin     |
| (German Public Auditor) | (German Public Auditor) |

